                                         LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from
                                         Methods to Scenarios
                                         BINGXI ZHAO∗ , Beijing Jiaotong University, China and Lancaster University, United Kingdom
                                         LIN GENG FOO∗ , Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarland Informatics Campus, Germany
                                         PING HU, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, China
                                         CHRISTIAN THEOBALT, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarland Informatics Campus, Germany
                                         HOSSEIN RAHMANI, Lancaster University, United Kingdom
                                         JUN LIU† , Lancaster University, United Kingdom




arXiv:2508.17692v1 [cs.AI] 25 Aug 2025
                                         Recent advances in the intrinsic reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have given rise to
                                         LLM-based agent systems that exhibit near-human performance on a variety of automated tasks. However,
                                         although these systems share similarities in terms of their use of LLMs, different reasoning frameworks of the
                                         agent system steer and organize the reasoning process in different ways. In this survey, we propose a systematic
                                         taxonomy that decomposes agentic reasoning frameworks and analyze how these frameworks dominate
                                         framework-level reasoning by comparing their applications across different scenarios. Specifically, we propose
                                         an unified formal language to further classify agentic reasoning systems into single-agent methods, tool-based
                                         methods, and multi-agent methods. After that, we provide a comprehensive review of their key application
                                         scenarios in scientific discovery, healthcare, software engineering, social simulation, and economics. We also
                                         analyze the characteristic features of each framework and summarize different evaluation strategies. Our
                                         survey aims to provide the research community with a panoramic view to facilitate understanding of the
                                         strengths, suitable scenarios, and evaluation practices of different agentic reasoning frameworks.
                                         CCS Concepts: • General and reference → Surveys and overviews; • Computing methodologies →
                                         Natural language processing.
                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Agentic Reasoning, LLM-based Agent, Reasoning Frameworks.
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Bingxi Zhao, Lin Geng Foo, Ping Hu, Christian Theobalt, Hossein Rahmani, and Jun Liu. 2025. LLM-based
                                         Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios. J. ACM 37, 4, Article 111 (August 2025),
                                         51 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

                                         1    Introduction
                                         Large Language Models (LLMs), with their powerful generalization and promising reasoning
                                         capabilities, have been rapidly reshaping numerous domains from our daily lives (e.g., idea creation,
                                         ∗ Both authors contributed equally to this research.
                                         † Corresponding author.


                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Bingxi Zhao, bingxizhao@bjtu.edu.cn, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China and
                                         Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom; Lin Geng Foo, lfoo@mpi-inf.mpg.de, Max Planck Institute for Informatics,
                                         Saarland Informatics Campus, Saarbrücken, Germany; Ping Hu, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China,
                                         Chengdu, China; Christian Theobalt, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarland Informatics Campus, Saarbrücken,
                                         Germany; Hossein Rahmani, Lancaster University, Lancaster, United Kingdom; Jun Liu, j.liu81@lancaster.ac.uk, Lancaster
                                         University, Lancaster, United Kingdom.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
                                         full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         ACM 1557-735X/2025/8-ART111
                                         https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                                                   J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:2                                                                                              Zhao et al.




Fig. 1. Number of publications regarding LLM-based Agentic Frameworks from 2020 to 2025 in journals and
conferences indexed by Web of Science. For discussing method developments (§3), we mainly select technical
papers published at top computer science conferences (e.g., ICLR, NeurIPS, ACL, EMNLP, AAAI, and ICML).
To discuss about scenarios (§4), we collect a diverse set of representative works: from top computer science
conferences (same as above) to top journals within specific domains (e.g., Nature, Science, Cell, Nat. Mach.
Intell, Adv. Mater, Adv. Sci, Nat. Med, PNAS, and NAR). We observe a fast-increasing trend since 2023, showing
the growing importance of the field. For 2025, we predict the overall amount of papers linearly based on data
accessed at 14th August.


email writing, or learning of new concepts) to domain-specific research [198]. Researchers have
been increasingly leveraging LLMs as core components to empower research and innovation [166],
from domain-specific knowledge Q&A [310] and code generation [118], to assisting in research
endeavors [164]. Through these aspects, LLMs are quickly becoming a key part of modern life and
research.
   Yet, despite their immense potential across various fields, LLMs have intrinsic limitations, which
may limit their usefulness. For instance, LLMs often suffer from issues such as hallucinations,
outdated knowledge, and high training and inference costs [111]. These issues often lead to problems
in the reliability and consistency of LLMs, and consequently restrict their application in critical
fields like healthcare and software engineering, which demand highly dependable outcomes.
   To overcome this barrier, the academic community has been actively exploring the use of LLMs
as a core engine to build LLM-based agentic reasoning frameworks capable of executing complex,
multi-step reasoning tasks [217, 266]. As illustrated in Fig. 1, we observe a significant upwards trend
in terms of papers published at top conferences. Initially, “Agents” are defined in [227] as systems
that “perceive their environment through sensors and act upon that environment through actuators”,
can dynamically adapt to their environments and take corresponding actions [166]. This emerging
paradigm organically integrates key modules like planning, memory, and tool-use, reshaping the
LLM into a task executor that can perceive its environment, adapt dynamically, and take sustained
action [112, 154, 266]. By extending vertically, expanding horizontally, or backtracking logically,
this paradigm fundamentally surpasses the single-step reasoning capabilities of traditional LLMs in
both reliability and task complexity.
   This trend has also been widely mirrored in industry, where tech giants are actively integrating
agent workflows into their core businesses. For instance, frameworks like Microsoft’s AutoGen1
are designed to empower enterprises to build customized multi-agent applications. Moreover, from
“vibe coding” editors like Cursor2 that deeply integrate agentic capabilities to autonomous AI
software engineers like Devin3 , a clear evolution based on agentic reasoning frameworks is gaining
widespread recognition, gradually replacing traditional development approaches.
1 https://github.com/microsoft/autogen
2 https://cursor.com/en/dashboard
3 https://devin.ai/



J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                     111:3


   However, at the same time, the explosive growth in this field has also blurred the boundaries
of LLM-based agents [305]. For instance, the overlap with concepts from areas like traditional
multi-agent systems [30, 87, 315] and autonomous systems [255] makes it difficult to define the
scope of research. Meanwhile, it is often hard to clearly separate whether enhanced capabilities
of an agent come from careful framework design, model-level improvements, or technological
advancements. This dual ambiguity poses a serious challenge for the horizontal comparison of
different projects and risks overlooking the foundational role of framework design in an agent
system’s reasoning ability.
   Therefore, we believe that it is timely for a survey to systematically summarize the recent progress
and application scenarios of agentic reasoning frameworks. We first clearly define the boundaries
of these frameworks and, based on that, propose a unified methodological classification system.
We then further analyze the application and evaluation strategies of these methods across diverse
scenarios, aiming to provide a clear roadmap for the standardized and safe development of agentic
developments. Our taxonomy also fits the current popular topics like context engineering.
   Overall, the contributions of our survey are as follows:
    • To the best of our knowledge, this is the first survey that proposes a unified methodological
      taxonomy to systematically highlight the core reasoning mechanisms and methods within
      agentic frameworks;
    • We employ a formal language to describe the reasoning process, clearly illustrating the impact
      of different methods on key steps;
    • We extensively investigate the application of agent reasoning frameworks in several key
      scenarios. In these application scenarios, we conduct in-depth analyses of representative
      works according to our proposed taxonomy, and present a collection of evaluation setups
      with datasets.
  The structure of the survey is as follows: Chapter §2 will further introduce compare the difference
between related surveys and our survey. Chapter §3 will present the taxonomy of techniques,
which systematically analyses the existing techniques for agentic reasoning. Chapter §4 will further
provide application scenarios of agentic reasoning frameworks, and how agents in each scenario
are often designed. Lastly, Chapter §5 will discuss future directions and Chapter §6 states the
conclusion of the survey.

2   Related Surveys
Recent surveys on agentic AI have explored the agentic reasoning landscape from several valuable
perspectives. A primary focus has been model-centric, examining how to enhance the agentic
capabilities of LLMs. For instance, several surveys [129, 250, 292] review training methodologies
such as Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and Reinforcement
Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). Other surveys also explore the potential of smaller,
specialized agentic models on specific reasoning tasks[18], or examine the planning abilities of
agentic foundation models [112, 154]. Overall, these surveys primarily focus on the “LLM” side
developments of LLM-based agents.
   Yet, recently in the field of LLM-based agents, numerous representative methods about agentic
frameworks have emerged, which explore how to leverage state-of-the-art LLMs with training-free
methods to build agentic frameworks through framework-level reasoning. However, to the best of
our knowledge, there still has not been a survey that systematically organizes these “framework”
side developments and discusses their value in various application scenarios. Therefore, in contrast
to other surveys, our survey specifically concentrates on agentic reasoning frameworks, reviewing
the most recent development on framework-level agentic reasoning methods, instead of orthogonal

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:4                                                                                               Zhao et al.




Fig. 2. Taxonomy of our proposed agentic reasoning frameworks. We decompose agentic reasoning methods
into three progressive categories: a) single-agent methods, b) tool-based methods, and c) multi-agent methods.


developments in model architectures and fine-tuning techniques. We categorize existing methods
along three progressive dimensions: single-agent, tool-based, and multi-agent, and propose a unified
taxonomy to analyze the different stages of the multi-step reasoning process, which has not been
explored in previous surveys.
   Closer to our work, there are surveys exploring how agentic technologies could be used within
specific domains, such as scientific discovery [86, 222], software engineering [122], medicine
[274], or social sciences [55]. However, their scope is often limited and focuses only on a single
specific domain, which can significantly increase the difficulty when comparing between agentic
frameworks across different domains. For instance, each of these surveys utilizes a different way
to categorize and list the research works, this makes it difficult to observe the abilities and trends
of LLM agents at the frontier of research or the special designs in each scenario, since there is no
unified taxonomy of these methods. Thus, we propose a systematic taxonomy which provides a
unified view of LLM agentic frameworks. This allows us to systematically analyze how the unique
requirements of each application scenario shape the design and adaptation of these frameworks in
those scenarios, thereby bridging the gap between methods and application scenarios. Furthermore,
our survey adopts a scenario-driven approach to trace and compare the evaluation setups and
datasets used in each representative works, across different application domains. To the best of our
knowledge, such systematic exploration of agentic reasoning and evaluation setups across different
scenarios has not yet been explored.

3     Methods
Extended from Foundation LLMs, agentic reasoning frameworks is a key development in order to
achieve a autonomous and environmental-aware systems which could solve complicated problems
in the real world. In this section, we propose a taxonomy to categorize these methods. At the top,
we deconstruct the reasoning framework into three distinct levels, namely single-agent, external
tool calling, and multi-agent, as shown in Figure 2. Single-agent methods focus on enhancing
the reasoning capability of individual agents; tool-based methods extend the boundaries of agent
reasoning through external tools; and multi-agent methods enable more flexible reasoning
through different paradigms of organization and interaction among multiple agents. We cover these
levels in Chapters §3.2, §3.3, §3.4 respectively, after we introduce the notations in Chapter §3.1.
Together, these methods at different levels can be integrated in different ways to fulfill specific
scenarios, which is covered in Chapter §4.

3.1     Notations
We highlight that agent systems can achieve their goals through a complete process that includes
multiple reasoning steps. Multi-agent systems can further execute a complete reasoning process

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                     111:5


under the collaboration of different agents [258]. To clearly introduce this complex process, we
propose a general reasoning algorithm (Alg. 1) and a notation table (Table 1) in this section, which
brings another level of abstraction. In the subsequent chapters (Chapters §3.2, §3.3, and §3.4), we
will further discuss how each representative line of works improve the reasoning performances by
modifying or adjusting this general algorithm.

                                 Table 1. Notations Used in This Chapter


 Notation      Description
 𝑃𝑈            The user’s input query.
 𝑄             The termination condition for the reasoning process.
 𝑔             The set of predefined goals to be achieved.
 𝑡             An external tool available to the agent.
 C             The internal context of an agent.
 𝑦             The output of an agent after an action.
 𝑘             A count of reasoning steps.
 A             The entire action space, containing all possible actions.
 𝑎             A general action that produces an output from a given input.
 𝑎′            An action that updates the current context based on an input.
 𝑎 reason      An action that performs a step of deep reasoning.
 𝑎 tool        An action that involves an interaction with an external tool 𝑡.
 𝑎 reflect     An action to reflect on and evaluate previous reasoning steps.

   A key differentiator between an agentic system and a standard Large Language Model is the
ability to perform multi-step reasoning [89]. This capability relies on the active management of
a persistent context throughout the lifecycle of a task within the agentic system [190]. While a
standard LLM processes a given context to produce a single-step output, an agent system, base on
its various action choice, iteratively updates its context to support a multi-step reasoning. Each
action, though has different targets or intentions, follows a similar logic to tackle such input-output
relations. Therefore, we formalize a single reasoning step as an operation where the agent executes
an action 𝑎 based on its current context C to produce an output 𝑦, expressed as 𝑦 = 𝑎(C). A full
reasoning process will contain several such reasoning steps.
   The outputs and insights from the preceding steps are preserved within this context, enabling
the agent to build upon its prior work [190]. We explicitly distinguish the action of generating an
output (𝑎) from the action of updating the state (𝑎 ′ ). This separation is crucial because the objective
of a context update (e.g., summarizing history, integrating a tool’s results) often differs from that of
producing a final or intermediate answer [190].
   To execute these steps, the agent selects actions from a generalized action space A, which we
define for our purposes as A = {𝑎 reason, 𝑎 tool, 𝑎 reflect }. To maintain focus on the reasoning logic, our
framework abstracts complex auxiliary components, such as memory modules [326], knowledge
retrieval [331], sandboxed environments [60], and human interruption [197] into a unified external
tool 𝑡. This is because they are mainly act as an external source that could provides agent with
external knowledge and information. The action 𝑎 tool is specifically designed and used to invoke
this tool, providing the agent with necessary external information or capabilities. While this action
space is sufficient for our analysis, it can be extended or tailored for specific domains [277].
   Consequently, a complete reasoning task is modeled as an iterative sequence of actions The
process is initiated by a user query 𝑃𝑈 and proceeds until a predefined termination condition 𝑄 is

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:6                                                                                           Zhao et al.


met. This condition is essential for ensuring controlled execution and conserving computational
resources [258]. Building on the notations in Table 1, we formalize this multi-step reasoning process
in Algorithm 1. The comments within the algorithm serve as forward references, indicating which
of the methodologies discussed in subsequent sections modify a particular step of the general
procedure.

Algorithm 1 General Algorithm for Framework-level Agentic Reasoning
Require: User Query 𝑃𝑈 ; Goal 𝑔; External Tool 𝑡; Action Space A; Terminate Condition 𝑄
Ensure: Final Output 𝑦𝑜𝑢𝑡
 1: Initialize context C0 ← Init(𝑃𝑈 )                                ⊲ §3.2 (eq.1,eq.3); §3.3 (eq.11)
 2: Initialize reasoning step 𝑘 ← 0
 3: while ¬𝑄 (C𝑘 , 𝑘) do                                                                 ⊲ §3.3(eq.4)
 4:     𝑦𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘 (C𝑘 , 𝑔, 𝑡), 𝑎𝑘 ∈ A                                         ⊲ §3.3 (eq.6,eq.7,eq.9)
 5:     C𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘′ (C𝑘 , 𝑦𝑘+1, 𝑔, 𝑡), 𝑎𝑘′ ∈ A          ⊲ §3.2 (eq.2); §3.3 (eq.8,eq.10); §3.4 (eq.12)
 6:     𝑘 ←𝑘 +1                                              ⊲ §3.2 (eq.5); §3.4 (eq.13,eq.14,eq.15)
 7: return Final output derived from C𝑘



3.2 Single-agent Methods
Single-Agent methods focus on enhancing the cognitive and decision-making abilities of an in-
dividual agent. From the perspectives of external guidance and internal optimization, this part
categorizes single-agent methods into two main types: prompt engineering and self-improvement.
Prompt engineering emphasizes guiding the agent’s reasoning process by leveraging roles, environ-
ments, tasks, and examples, while self-improvement focuses on how the agent refines its reasoning
strategies through reflection, iteration, and interaction.
3.2.1 Prompt Engineering. Prompt engineering enhances the agent’s performance by enriching its
initial context, which corresponds to the context initialization step (line 1 in Alg.1). [237]. Instead
of relying solely on the user’s query (𝑃𝑈 ), this approach augments the initial context C0 with a
meticulously crafted prompt, denoted as 𝑃 ∗ . This conceptual shift can be represented as:
                                                      Prom. Eng.
                               C0 ← Init(𝑃𝑈 )         −−−−−−−−→       C0 ← Init(𝑃𝑈 , 𝑃 ∗ )             (1)
Equation 1 illustrates that the initialization process is transformed. Originally, the context C0
is derived exclusively from the user query 𝑃𝑈 . With prompt engineering, it is initialized with
both 𝑃𝑈 and the engineered prompt 𝑃 ∗ . This additional prompt 𝑃 ∗ is often a composite of several
components: a role-playing perspective (𝑃role ), an environment simulation (𝑃env ), a detailed task
clarification (𝑃𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑘 ), and a set of in-context examples (𝑃𝑖𝑐𝑙 ). Unlike fine-tuning methods, which alters
the LLM’s parameters, prompt engineering guides the model’s behavior non-intrusively, steering
the agent towards more accurate and predictable reasoning outcomes [171]. Each component of 𝑃 ∗
contributes to this guidance in a distinct way, as detailed below and illustrated in Fig. 3.
  Role-Playing. To instill a role-playing perspective (𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑒 ), the prompt assigns the agent a specific
persona or identity, such as “You are an expert data scientist” or “Act as a seasoned historian" [239].
This encourages the agent to leverage the expertise, cognitive frameworks, and linguistic styles
associated with that role [229]. By adopting a persona, the model can better activate domain-specific
knowledge and structure its responses from a more professional viewpoint during reasoning [136].
This technique has become a widely adopted method in the agentic frameworks discussed in
chapter §4, owing to its low deployment cost and high guidance efficiency. By assigning a clear

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                     111:7




Fig. 3. Prompt engineerng for agentic reasoning framework. We summarize four types of methods: a)
Role-playing: an agent will be distributed with a specific role, to stimulate its specific performance; b)
Environmental-simulation: an agent will be told in a carefully designed environment, where it can reason
with multi-modalities or external abilities; c) Task-description: a task will be clearly reconstructed and
expressed to an agent; d) In-context Learning: several examples will be provided to an agent before or
during its multi-step reasoning. For each type of prompting method, we provide a short example prompt,
with the theme of conducting agentic research.



role, it enables agents to better focus on their specific duties, thereby optimizing their reasoning
and decision-making processes in complex tasks. However, the efficiency of role assignment can be
sensitive to the granularity of the persona design and the specifics of the task [132]. Furthermore,
for fact-based questions, role-playing may introduce biases inherent to the persona, potentially
leading to factually inaccurate outputs [155].

   Environment Simulation. The environment simulation prompt (𝑃𝑒𝑛𝑣 ) contextualizes the agent
by describing the specific setting in which it operates. This provides task-relevant background
information, rules, and constraints, enabling the agent to make decisions that are better aligned with
the simulated world. These environments can range from mimicking real-world scenarios, such as a
stock market [67] or a medical clinic [64], to entirely virtual settings like a video game world [277],
often with a action space that are carefully designed. A detailed and task-relevant environmental
description is critical, as it prompts the agent to generate actions that are contextually appropriate
and highly correlated with the scenario’s objectives.

   Task Description. A clear task description (𝑃𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑘 ), which outlines the primary goal 𝑔, constraints,
and expected output format, is a cornerstone of virtually every agent system. A well-structured task
description guides the agent in decomposing a complex problem into a sequence of manageable
sub-tasks. By providing a precise description, agents can better comprehend the task’s intent
and execute it in the specified manner, which effectively reduces ambiguity during the reasoning
process and leads to more accurate outcomes [191]. However, the verbosity and structure of the
task description can significantly impact the performance of the underlying LLM, often requiring
careful optimization tailored to the specific model being used [147].

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:8                                                                                                       Zhao et al.




Fig. 4. Paradigms of self-improvement for an LLM-based agent. We introduce three core mechanisms. a)
Reflection: The agent analyzes a completed trajectory to generate a textual summary, storing in its context.
This summary will helps for the next reasoning step. b) Iterative Optimization: Within a single task, the
agent generates an initial output, compares it against a defined standard or feedback from others, and
repeatedly refines it in following reasoning steps, until 𝑄 is met. c) Interactive Learning: The agent interacts
with a dynamic environment, where experiences (e.g., discovering a new item) can trigger an update to its
high-level goals, fostering continuous, open-ended learning.


   In-context Learning. In-context learning (ICL) provides the agent with a set of few-shot examples,
or demonstrations, within the prompt (𝑃𝑖𝑐𝑙 ). These examples typically take the form of pairs
{(𝑥 1, 𝑧 1 ), (𝑥 2, 𝑧 2 ), . . . , (𝑥𝑛 , 𝑧𝑛 )}, where each pair (𝑥 𝑗 , 𝑧 𝑗 ) consists of an exemplary input 𝑥 𝑗 and its
corresponding desired output 𝑧 𝑗 [25]. This allows the agent to discern patterns and generalize
to new task instances without any gradient updates. Chain-of thought prompting [282] further
porvides a paradigms that the intermediate reasoning steps could also be brought to agent, teaching
agents how to reason, plan and break down problems without internal tuning [328]. However,
the performance of ICL is highly sensitive to the quality and relevance of the provided examples;
low-quality or irrelevant demonstrations can significantly degrade the agent’s reasoning capabilities
[156].
3.2.2 Self-Improvement. Self-improvement mechanisms encourage an agent to enhance its rea-
soning capabilities through introspection and autonomous learning. Rather than relying on static,
pre-defined prompts, these methods enable the agent to dynamically adapt its strategies based on
its own experiences. As summarized in Fig. 4, this internal optimization process can be understood
through three complementary paradigms: reflection, which involves learning from past trajectories;
iterative optimization, which focuses on refining outputs within a single reasoning cycle; and
interactive learning, which allows for the dynamic adjustment of high-level goals in response to
environmental feedback.
   Reflection. Reflection enables an agent to perform post-hoc analysis on its past actions and
outcomes to extract valuable lessons for future tasks. This process involves generating a summary
of its reasoning process, identifying flaws or inefficiencies, and articulating insights in natural
                                                                          ′
language [92]. This process refers to line 5 in Alg. 1, where the action 𝑎𝑘 is specifically assigned as
reflection 𝑎𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡 :
                                                       ′
                                            𝐶𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡 (𝐶𝑘 , 𝑦𝑘+1, 𝑔, 𝑡)                                    (2)
The scope of reflection can vary. For instance, the Reflexion framework [241] guides agents to
verbally reflect on task failures, storing these reflections in an episodic memory to refine plans in
subsequent trials. Other approaches have explored reflecting on different aspects, such as inefficient
reasoning paths [335] or conflicting information from external tools [204]. This self-correction

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                       111:9


capability allows the agent to learn from its mistakes and continuously adapt its strategies without
requiring external intervention or parameter updates.

   Iterative Optimization. In contrast to the post-hoc nature of reflection, iterative optimization
utilize a whole reasoning process to complete a pre-defined standard or constraint, which we
denoted as S. This mechanism introduces two key modifications to the agent’s fundamental
operation described in Alg. 1.
   First, the standard S is incorporated into the agent’s initial context. This modification of the
initialization step (line 1 in Alg. 1) ensures that agent is aware of the optimization target from the
outset:
                                                   Iter. Opt.
                            C0 ← Init(𝑃𝑈 )        −−−−−−→       C0 ← Init(𝑃𝑈 , S)                                  (3)
Equation 3 shows that the context initialization is augmented to include not just the user’s query
𝑃𝑈 , but also the explicit standard S that the final output must satisfy. Second, the agent’s autonomy
to decide when to stop is replaced by S. The general termination condition Q is now precisely
defined by whether the current output y satisfies the standard S. This can be expressed as a formal
redefinition of Q (line 3 in Alg.1):
                                             Iter. Opt.
                                      𝑄     −−−−−−→         𝑄 ≜ (𝑦 ⊨ S)                                            (4)

As stated in Equation 4, the termination condition 𝑄 is now defined as the predicate checking if the
current output 𝑦 satisfies the standard S. Consequently, after each reasoning step that produces an
output, the agent checks it against S, entering an iterative loop of refinement until the condition is
met. This iterative loop is central to frameworks like Self-Refine [183], where a single LLM acts
as its own generator, critic, and refiner to improve its output without external training data. This
approach is particularly effective for tasks requiring high precision, such as code generation [84] or
mathematical reasoning [3]. However, it can be computationally intensive and risks converging on
a suboptimal solution if the feedback mechanism is flawed or the search space is too complex [205].

   Interactive Learning. Representing the most advanced level of self-improvement, interactive
learning allows an agent to fundamentally alter its high-level goals 𝑔 based on continuous interaction
with a dynamic environment. This paradigm moves beyond optimizing a fixed plan to enabling the
agent to decide what to do next on a strategic level. This corresponds to an enhancement of the
goal-updating mechanism (line 6 in Alg. 1), where the goal 𝑔 is no longer static but is re-evaluated
at each step:
                                      𝑔𝑘+1 ← 𝑎𝑘 ({(C𝑖 , 𝑦𝑖 )}𝑘𝑖=1, 𝑔𝑘 , 𝑡)                                         (5)
Equation 5 shows that the new goal 𝑔𝑘+1 is derived from the entire history of contexts and outputs
{(C𝑖 , 𝑦𝑖 )}𝑘𝑖=1 , the current goal 𝑔𝑘 , and available tools 𝑡. Voyager [277] exemplify this, where an
agent in Minecraft autonomously proposes new goals based on its discoveries, gradually building a
complex skill tree without human intervention. Similarly, ExpeL [329] enables an agent to learn
from trial-and-error experiences, creating a memory of successful and failed attempts that informs
the generation of more promising goals in future tasks. Further systematizing this process, Learn-
by-Interact [103] introduces a data-centric framework where an agent autonomously collects
interaction data and then distills it into a reusable knowledge base, thereby enabling structured,
self-adaptive behavior in complex environments. By dynamically adapting its objectives, the agent
demonstrates a higher form of autonomy, allowing it to navigate complex, evolving environments
in a truly adaptive manner [333].

                                                    J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:10                                                                                           Zhao et al.




Fig. 5. Tool-based reasoning frameworks of LLM-based agent. a) Tool integration studies how to incorporate
tools into the agent’s reasoning process; b) Tool Selection addresses which tool from the toolkit T is most
suitable for the current task or sub-problem; c) Tool Utilization concerns how to effectively operate the
chosen tool to generate the desired output.



3.3      Tool-based Methods
While the general agentic reasoning framework (Alg. 1) conceptualizes tool use via a single entity
𝑡, this abstraction is insufficient for complex scenarios where reasoning is deeply intertwined with
specific environmental capabilities. Here we expand this single entity 𝑡 into a comprehensive toolkit
T = {𝑡 1, 𝑡 2, ..., 𝑡𝑛 }, where each 𝑡𝑖 represents a distinct tool available to the agent. As illustrated
in Fig. 5, we deconstruct the tool-based reasoning pipeline into three fundamental stages: Tool
Integration, Tool Selection, and Tool Utilization. Generally, the output from tool calling will
be integrated into the context of agent by a specific action (line 5 in Alg. 1). These three steps
together form the tool-based methods for complex multi-step reasoning, helping agents better
exploit external resources to solve complex reasoning problems.

3.3.1 Tool Integration. Before an agent select and utilize a tool, the tool must first be made accessible
within the agent’s operational environment. This architectural integration defines the interface
and communication protocol between the agent and the tool [61]. We categorize these integration
patterns into three primary models: API-based Integration, Plugin-based Integration, and Middleware-
based Integration. APIs enable agents to easily interact with various tools without needing to
understand their internal implementations; plugins dynamically extend the functionality of the
agent system; while middleware focuses on aligning the interactions between the agent and the
tools.

   API-based Integration. APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) provide standard for integrating
external tools [311]. APIs provide a stable, well-documented contract that allows an agent to
interact with a tool (e.g., a web search engine [47]) without needing to understand its internal
implementation. The agent simply learns to formulate a request according to the API specification
and parse the returned data.
   Emerging Agent protocols such as MCP further develop the diversity of API tools. Under the
corporation of service provider, agents now can easily use precise services such as map navigation
to provide detailed information for the user [105]. But such integration is subject to network latency,
rate limits, and potential service outages. It also requires the agent to manage authentication and
security credentials [105].

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                    111:11


   Plugin-based Integration. Plugins are software components that are loaded and executed directly
within the agent’s own runtime environment. Unlike external API calls, plugins operate with lower
latency and have deeper access to the agent’s internal state [181].
   Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [148] is a typical case of plugin-based integration. A
vector database is integrated directly into the agent system, introducing domain-specific knowledge
to the agent in the form of a tool call, thereby increasing the credibility of its answers [77]. Liu
et al. [173] offers a more specific application of plugins. By integrating an interactive heatmap
plugin and a scatter plot plugin, the agent system is enabled to dynamically process, analyze,
and visualize domain-specific data during its reasoning process. Thus, plugins offer a higher level
of customization, extending the edge of agenic framework’s core abilities, but it may introduce
complexity to the overall system [101].
   Middleware-based Integration. Middleware is a software layer situated between the Agent and
tools [88]. This layer acts as a universal adapter or an “operating environment” for the agent,
abstracting away the complexities of direct tool interaction, shielding the LLM from environmental
complexity [88]. A middleware layer could manage API keys, standardize data formats across
different tools, or provide a unified file system and execution environment for the agent [291].
Therefore, middleware simplifies the agent’s logic by offloading complex tasks, providing a consis-
tent interface over a heterogeneous set of tools. Chen et al. [40] further propose Internet of Agents,
highlighting advantages of middleware in complex reasonoing process. However, it adds another
layer of abstraction that can complicate maintenance.
3.3.2 Tool Selection. Instead of generally using tool 𝑡 in each reasoning step (line 4 and 5 of Alg. 1),
here we want to highlight the importance of the selecting action of tool within reasoning steps.
Effective tool selection is pivotal when an agent is presented with a large and diverse toolkit
T . The challenge lies in accurately mapping the requirements of a given problem to the specific
choice of a tool 𝑡, where 𝑡 ∈ T . Based on the degree of agent autonomy, we categorize tool
selection strategies into three primary approaches: Autonomous Selection, Ru-Based Selection, and
Learning-Based Selection.
   Autonomous Selection. This paradigm highlights the autonomy of agentic systems. The agent
autonomously selects a tool based on its intrinsic reasoning capabilities, guided solely by the natural
language descriptions of the available tools and the input query [321]. This process is often framed
as a zero-shot reasoning task, where the agent must “think” to connect the problem to the right
tool without explicit rules [304].
   Just like a general reasoning step, the tool selection step will let agent reason, reflect, or even
use tools to decide which tool 𝑡𝑘+1 is suited for current condition, this tool 𝑡𝑘+1 can be regarded as
the output 𝑦 within this reasoning step:
                                   𝑦𝑘+1 ← 𝑡𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘 (𝐶𝑘 , 𝑔, T ), 𝑎𝑘 ∈ A                                         (6)
Following line 5 in Alg. 1, the selected tool 𝑡𝑘+1 is updated into the current context window, allowing
the agent to use it in subsequent reasoning steps. This selection process may sometimes be repeated
multiple times to gradually filter for the best tools from a large toolset [160]. Since this method
requires no task-specific examples or fine-tuning, it enables the agent to dynamically adapt to
novel combinations of tools, tasks and scenarios. However, its performance is highly dependent on
the quality of tool descriptions and the agent’s inherent reasoning capacity, which challenges the
robustness and efficiency of the agent system.
  Rule-Based Selection. This approach governs agent’s tool selection through a set of predefined,
explicit rules R that map specific tasks, intents, or states to designated tools [180]. These rules

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:12                                                                                        Zhao et al.


provide a deterministic and reliable mechanism for tool choice. The selection process is thus
conditioned on these rules:
                                  𝑡𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘 (𝐶𝑘 , 𝑔, T , R), 𝑎𝑘 ∈ A                                 (7)
The rules in R can be implemented in various forms, from simple keyword matching [174] to
structured formats like process description language (PDL) [339].
   The main benefit of rule-based selection is its high reliability for well-defined tasks. It ensures
that the agent consistently uses the correct tool for a known situation, minimizing errors [154].
However, manually crafting and maintaining a comprehensive set of rules is labor-intensive and
scales poorly as the number of tools and the complexity of tasks grow. It struggles with unforeseen
problems that do not match any existing rules, forcing a default failure or a fallback to a different
selection mechanism.
   Learning-Based Selection. Learning-based selection in this context refers to an explicit, online
process where the agent refines its tool selection strategy during inference [232]. This adaptation
occurs through a cycle of action, feedback, and reflection, improving its concurrent tool actions. As
demonstrated in figure. 5, the agent attempts a tool for task, receives feedback on its performance
(e.g., from execution results, or human guidance), and then explicitly reflects on this outcome to
update its context C for subsequent steps:
                                                      ′
                                             𝐶𝑘+1 = 𝑎 reflection (𝐶𝑘 , 𝑦𝑘 , 𝑔)                       (8)
This reflective step allows the agent to learn from its own context by storing experiences of
successful tool-task pairings or by generating explicit strategies to avoid repeating past mistakes
[215]. This approach enables the agent to adapt to novel scenarios and user preferences without
requiring model retraining. Learn-By-Interact [103] achieves a interactive learning by synthesizing
trajectories of agent-environment interactions based on documentations, and constructs instructions
by summarizing or abstracting the interaction histories. However, a good feedback logic is necessary,
and such exploring process can be costed.
3.3.3 Tool Utilization. Following the previous section, this section focus on how to make the best
use of the selected tools [186]. Here we divide tool utilization into three modes: sequential use,
parallel use, and iterative use. Sequential use involves invoking multiple tools in a predetermined
order, parallel use focuses on the breadth of tool calls within the same reasoning step, while iterative
use aims at achieving the optimal task solution within certain limits through repeated cycles.
   Sequential Utilization. In this mode, the agent invokes tools in a sequence, where the output of
one tool often serves as the input for the next, forming a clear tool-chain [154]. This is well-suited
for tasks that can be decomposed into a linear workflow. The results of tool calling are integrated
into the current context, influencing the next calling [15]. CRITIC [85] improve its output through
a sequential use of external tools, including search engine and code interpreter. MCP-Zero [68]
further promote tool discovery based on the tool chain, where agent sequentially use different tool
to solve complex problems. Its primary benefit is simplicity and predictability, making workflows
easy to design, analyze and debug. But sometimes it’s inefficiency for tasks with independent
sub-problems and susceptibility to cascading failures, where an error in an early step halts the
entire chain.
   Parallel Utilization. To enhance efficiency, this mode involves invoking multiple tools concur-
rently within a single reasoning step. The Agent invokes multiple tools simultaneously to achieve
                                                                                       ′ ′  ′        ′
synchronous processing of multidimensional information. For a selected tool set T = {𝑡 1, 𝑡 2, ..., 𝑡𝑚 }
in any middle reasoning step 𝑘, the agent will generate a group of results in parallel using each
tool within T ′ . That is, for line 4 in Alg.1, the output will becomes a set of output:

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                      111:13



                                                1      2              𝑚
                                       Y𝑘+1 = {𝑦𝑘+1 , 𝑦𝑘+1 , . . . , 𝑦𝑘+1 }
                                                                                                                   (9)
                                   𝑖
                            where 𝑦𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘 (C𝑘 , 𝑔, 𝑡𝑖′ ),    𝑎𝑘 ∈ A,        𝑡𝑖′ ∈ T ′
After that, the update of context will further consider this output set Y𝑘+1 [340], instead of a single
output like before:
                                                ′
                                     𝐶𝑘+1 = 𝑎𝑘 (Y𝑘+1, 𝐶𝑘 , 𝑔), 𝑎𝑘′ ∈ A                                            (10)
The key advantage is a significant reduction in latency, as multiple time-consuming tool utilization
can be executed at once. It’s also efficiency to explore several proper tools simultaneously. For
example, LLM Compiler [133] efficiently orchestrates multiple function calls by executing them
in parallel during intermediate reasoning steps, while LLM-Tool Compiler [244] achieves tool
parallelization by selectively fusing tools with similar functionalities. But such techniques may also
introduce the challenge of aggregating potentially conflicting information from diverse outputs.
   Iterative Utilization. Iterative utilization involves a micro-level loop where an agent repeatedly
interacts with a tool to achieve a fine-grained objective within a single step of the broader reasoning
process [184]. This contrasts with macro-level iterative optimization of the entire solution in §3.2.2.
The focus here is on perfecting a single tool-use instance. A prime example is an agent using a code
interpreter: if the first execution fails, the agent inspects the error, refines the code, and re-executes
it until it runs successfully, all before moving to the next macro reasoning step [97]. This method
enhances the robustness of tool execution, but may increase the latency of a single reasoning
step and carries the risk of getting stuck in unproductive loops [205]. This necessitates carefully
designed termination conditions or reflection mechanisms [241].

3.4   Multi-agent Methods
While single-agent frameworks demonstrates considerable capabilities, they inherently face limita-
tions when confronted with tasks demanding diverse expertise or complex problem decomposition.
Multi-agent systems (MAS) emerge as a natural solution, leveraging the collective intelligence of
multiple agents to tackle these challenges. The central principle of MAS is to “divide and conquer”,
but its core challenge lies in achieving effective coordination [258]. This challenge bifurcates into
two fundamental questions: (1) How should the agents be organized? This pertains to the system’s
organizational architecture, which dictates the patterns of control and information flow. (2) How
should the agents interact with others? This relates to the individual interaction protocols, which
define how agents align their goals and behaviors.
   As illustrated in Figure 6, we analyze the multi-agent reasoning frameworks along these two
axes. Organizational architectures include centralized, distributed, and hierarchical forms, which
determine the structural backbone of the system; while individual interactions involve coopera-
tion, competition, and negotiation, governing the dynamics between agents as they pursue their
objectives.
   To formally discuss these paradigms, we represent a multi-agent system as a set of agents
M = {𝐴𝑟 1 , 𝐴𝑟 2 , ..., 𝐴𝑟𝑛 }, where 𝑟𝑖 denotes the specialized role of an agent 𝐴𝑟𝑖 . While each agent
adheres to the general reasoning loop outlined in Alg. 1, its behavior is individuated by its unique
role, goal 𝑔𝑖 , available actions 𝑎𝑖 and tool 𝑡 𝑖 . They also maintain different individual context C𝑖 . It is
the distinctiveness of each agent’s context and role that drives the heterogeneity in their reasoning,
ultimately shaping the system’s collective output.
3.4.1 Organizational Architecture. The organizational architecture defines the macro-level structure
for coordination and control, which is often instantiated by assigning a specific role 𝑟𝑖 to each

                                                    J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:14                                                                                           Zhao et al.




Fig. 6. A taxonomy of Multi-agent reasoning frameworks, categorized in a) Organizational Architectures:
we summarize three paradigms of multi-agent frameworks to explain how such system can be organized to
solve different kinds of challenges; b) Individual Interactions: we demonstrated three types of interaction
between different agents within one multi-agent system.


agent’s initial context C0𝑟𝑖 :
                                            C0 ← 𝑃𝑈 ⇒ C0𝑟𝑖 ← (𝑃𝑈 , 𝑟𝑖 )                                (11)
Extend from line 5 in Alg. 1, each agent, no matter under what organization, their update of context
must consider all other agents’ output, with their previous context 𝑦𝑘𝑟𝑖 , which would be formalized
as:
                                           ′
                                    𝑟𝑖
                                  C𝑘+1  = 𝑎𝑘 (𝐶𝑘𝑟𝑖 , Y𝑘 , 𝑔𝑟𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑟𝑖 ), 𝑎𝑘′ ∈ A
                                                                                                 (12)
                                       whereY𝑘 = {𝑦𝑘𝑟 1 , 𝑦𝑘𝑟 2 , ..., 𝑦𝑘𝑟𝑛 }
Here, Y𝑘 represents the collective outputs of all the 𝑛 agents at reasoning step 𝑘. The specific subset
of Y𝑘 that an agent 𝐴𝑟𝑖 considers is determined by different organizational architecture. We further
decompose the organization of multi-agent systems into three distinct paradigms: centralized,
decentralized, and hierarchical. A centralized architecture is suitable for scenarios requiring global
optimization and strict control; a distributed architecture offers greater autonomy for each agent;
while a hierarchical architecture is appropriate for tasks with clear goals and well-defined processes.
These paradigms can be statically or dynamically integrated, reaching a flexible organization
structure in specific scenarios [166].
  Centralized. In general, a centralized architecture set a central agent 𝐴𝑐𝑒𝑛 to manage and coordi-
nate the reasoning activities for other agents, 𝐴𝑟𝑖 where 𝑟 ≠ 𝑐𝑒𝑛 [78]. But their is a difference. This
central agent 𝐴𝑐𝑒𝑛 typically performs global planning, task decomposition, and result synthesis,
requiring it to process the outputs from all other agents, as in Eq. 12. Subordinate agents, however,
may only need to consider instructions from the manager, simplifying their context updates. This
architecture ensures high coordination and global optimization [78]. However, it introduces a
potential performance bottleneck and a single point of failure at the central node [205].

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                            111:15


  Decentralized. In a decentralized architecture, there is no central authority. Each agent possesses
equal status and makes decisions based on local information and direct peer-to-peer communication
[301]. Consequently, the context update for every agent typically follows the general form in Eq.
12, where each agent must process the outputs of all its neighbors, or all other agents in a fully
connected system. This discussion-like process fosters emergent collaboration and enhances system
robustness and fault tolerance, as the failure of one agent does not cripple the entire system [301].
However, it may reduce the overall efficiency of resource utilization [205].

  Hierarchical. A hierarchical architecture organizes agents into a structured tree or pyramid,
decomposing a complex task into sub-problems at different levels of abstraction. As illustrated in
MetaGPT [102], agents at higher levels are responsible for strategic planning and delegate tasks to
lower-level agents, which execute more specific sub-tasks. Information typically flows vertically:
instructions pass down from upper to lower levels, and results are passed back up. This structure
excels at solving well-defined problems that can be clearly decomposed, promoting efficiency
and consistency [37]. However, such architectures can be rigid and may stifle the flexibility and
creativity of individual agents.

3.4.2 Individual Interaction. The interaction protocol governs how an agent’s goals evolve in
response to others, directly influencing the system’s emergent behavior. This introduces a dynamic
update to an agent’s goal 𝑔𝑟𝑖 , expanding the static goal assumption in the basic reasoning loop (line
6 in Alg. 1). We further categorize these interactions as cooperation, competition, and negotiation.
Cooperation emphasizes maximizing collective interests, competition focuses on maximizing indi-
vidual interests, and negotiation represents a compromise between the two. These three different
paradigms can also be further combined to achieve specific reasoning objectives.

   Cooperation. In cooperation mechanism, the primary objective for agents is to maximize collective
interests. A common goal G is established to guide knowledge sharing and collaborative planning
[258]. This goal can be predefined in the system prompt or dynamically formed during different
reasoning steps.
   At each step, an agent will dynamically update its goal by reflecting on its performance and
aligns its individual goal 𝑔𝑟𝑖 with the common goal G. The updated goal will further influence the
next reasoning step:
                                           𝑔𝑟𝑖 ← 𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑖 𝑓 𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡 (𝐶𝑘𝑟𝑖 , 𝑔𝑟𝑖 , G, 𝑡 𝑟𝑖 )                                   (13)

Therefore, the achievement of individual agentic goals often promotes the goals of other agents
and the entire system [89].

   Competition. In competitive interactions, agents pursue their individual goals, which are often
in conflict. The objective is to maximize individual benefit, which may involve outperforming or
strategically undermining opponents [31]. An agent must not only advance its own agenda but also
infer and counter the intentions of others based on their observable outputs Y𝑘 . The goal update
process will therefore become adversarial:

                      𝑔𝑟𝑖 ← 𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑖 𝑓 𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡 (𝐶𝑘𝑟𝑖 , 𝑔𝑟𝑖 , Y𝑘 , 𝑡 𝑟𝑖 ), whereY𝑘 = {𝑦𝑘𝑟 1 , 𝑦𝑘𝑟 2 , ..., 𝑦𝑘𝑟𝑛 }              (14)

This dynamic is exemplified by frameworks that use multi-agent debate, such as MAD [162], where
agents take on adversarial “debater” roles to challenge assumptions and uncover flaws in reasoning.
Such adversarial interactions can significantly improve the robustness and quality of the final
output by forcing a thorough exploration of the problem space [117].

                                                          J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:16                                                                                                                                                          Zhao et al.


Table 2. A comprehensive comparison of mainstream agentic reasoning frameworks, illustrating how methods
from our taxonomy are organized within each work, alongside their inspiration, evaluation, and code. The
legend for the abbreviations is as follows. PE (Prompt Engineering): Role (role-playing), Task (task descrip-
tion). SI (Self-Improvement): R.F (reflection), I.O (iterative optimization), I.L (interactive learning). Tools:
T.I (tool integration); T.S (tool selection: ‘rule’ for rule-based, ‘auto’ for autonomous); T.U (tool utilization:
‘Seq’ for sequential, ‘Iter’ for iterative). Multi-agent: M.O (organization: ‘Dec’ for decentralized, ‘Cen’ for
centralized, ‘Hier’ for hierarchical); M.I (interaction: ‘Deb’ for debate, ‘Coo’ for cooperation).
∗ Mix: The framework employs more than one organization method.
†Prompt engineering techniques are widely used, so we list only the most representative sub-methods em-
ployed in each work.
‡This column lists the primary inspirations (theories or prior works) stated in each paper.

                    Single-agent                  Tool-based            Multi-agent
       Work                                                                                      Inspiration‡                             Datasets                   Code
                     PE†         SI         T.I         T.S      T.U M.O       M.I
                                                                                                                                 GSM8k[50],BigBench[245],
  Du et al.[59]     Role        I.O.         -           -        -    Dec.    Deb.           Society of Mind[192]                                                     §
                                                                                                                                         MMLU[98]
                                                                                                Degeneration-of
   MAD[162]       Role/Task      -           -           -        -    Dec.    Deb.                                              Kong et al.[137],Website∗∗ ,          §
                                                                                               -Thought[22, 130]
      SPP[278]      Role        I.O.         -           -        -    Cen. Coo./Deb.        Pretend play[209, 210]             Triviaqa[126],BigBench[245]            §
                                                                                                                             MATH[99],Kwiatkowski et al.[139],
  AutoGen[287]      Task        RF.         API        Rule      Seq   Mix∗    Coo.           Society of Mind[192]                                                     §
                                                                                                                               Adlakha et al.[2],ALFworld[242]
                                                                                                                            FED[189],Commongen-Challenge[184],
                                           API/
 AgentVerse[39]     Role        I.L.                   Auto      Seq Dec.      Coo.         Markov decision process              MGSM[240],BigBench[245],              §
                                          Plugin††
                                                                                                                                     HummanEval[38]
                                                                                                                               MT-Bench[334],FairEvals[268],
 AutoAgents[34]     Role        I.O.        API        Auto      Seq Mix∗      Coo.          ReAct[304],AutoGPT‡‡                                                      §
                                                                                                                               HummanEval[38],Triviaqa[126]
  CAMEL[151]      Role/Task     I.O.        API        Auto      Seq Dec.      Coo.           Society of Mind[192]           HummanEval[38],Humaneval+[169]            §
  ChatDev[213]      Role        I.O.        API      Auto/Rule Seq Hier.       Coo.         LLM Hallucination[323]                       SRDD[213]                     §
                                                                                                                                HummanEval[38],MBPP[10],
 MetaGPT[102]       Role      I.O./I.L.     API        Auto      Iter. Hier.   Coo.     ReAct[304],SOPs[17, 54, 185, 286]                                              §
                                                                                                                                     SoftwareDev[102]
 ∗∗ https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/puzzles/

 †† https://github.com/OpenBMB/BMTools

 ‡‡ https://github.com/Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT




   Negotiation. Negotiation is a hybrid interaction that balances cooperation and competition.
It enables agents with conflicting interests to reach a mutually acceptable consensus through
communication and compromise [83]. During negotiation, agents exchange proposals and iteratively
adjust their goals based on both the common objective G and the proposals from others contained
in Y𝑘 , as illustrated in Figure 6:
                                                             𝑔𝑟𝑖 ← 𝑎𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑖 𝑓 𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡 (𝐶𝑘𝑟𝑖 , 𝑔𝑟𝑖 , Y𝑘 , G, 𝑡 𝑟𝑖 )
                                                                                                                                                                      (15)
                                                                𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒Y𝑘 = {𝑦𝑘𝑟 1 , 𝑦𝑘𝑟 2 , ..., 𝑦𝑘𝑟𝑛 }
This process compels agents to weigh their own objectives against collective constraints and
the perspectives of others. For instance, ChatEval [31] utilizes a negotiation-like debate among
multiple “referee” agents to autonomously evaluate the quality of AI-generated text, reaching a
human-aligned judgments. This approach is particularly effective for complex decision-making
tasks where there is no single correct answer, but rather a spectrum of acceptable solutions.

3.5      Discussion
In this chapter, we introduced a three-level, progressive taxonomy to demonstrate how methods
from each level enhance various facets of an agentic framework’s reasoning process. This classifi-
cation is grounded in a unified formal language and a general reasoning algorithm (Alg. 1). We
contend that by combining methods across these levels, the capability boundaries and collaborative

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                                                              111:17

                                                                                LLM4ED [58], Optimus [3], MetaOpenFoam [45], OptimAI [257], Wang
                                                         Math                    et al. [269], Kumarappan et al. [138], Baba et al. [12], MathSENSI [53]

                                                      Astrophysics                         Saeedi et al. [228], Moss [194], Laverick et al. [143]

                                                                            Li et al. [159], Li and Ning [158], Wang et al. [265], Ning et al. [200], Pantiukhin
                  Scientific Discovery (§4.1)         Geo-Science
                                                                                 et al. [207], GeoAgent [108], GeoMap-Agent [113], GeoLLM-Squad [144]

                                                                                   ChatDrug [172], LIDDIA [11], DrugAgent [114], PharmAgents [71],
                                                                            CLADD [145], ChatChemHTS [116], Biodiscoveryagent [224], Crispr-GPT [218],
                                                    Biochemistry &            Mehandru et al. [188], AutoBA [336], Su et al. [249], Chemist-X [36], Ruan
                                                    Material Science             et al. [226], Bran et al. [24], Zou et al. [341], Yang et al. [302], Stewart
                                                                               and Buehler [246], ChatMoF [128], LLaMP [49], AtomAgents [79], ProtA-
                                                                            gents [78], Liu et al. [176], BioResearcher [180], CACTUS [187], ChemHTS [160]

                                                                                   Autosurvey [276], SurveyX [163], Surveyforge [296], Agent Labo-
                                                                                   ratory [234], Lu et al. [178], Yamada et al. [294], Tang et al. [253],
                                                    General Research
                                                                                     Ghareeb et al. [81], Seo et al. [238], ResearchAgent [14], Su et
                                                                                      al. [248], Gottweis et al. [83], Ghafarollahi and Buehler [80]

                                                                                         MedAgents [254], Wang et al. [270], Chen et al. [44],
                                                   Diagnosis Assistant                   RareAgents [41], KG4Diagnosis [342], AI-HOPE [298],
                                                                                         TxAgent [75], MMedAgent [149], Medagent-pro [279]

    Application                                                                                ClinicalAgent [309], Medaide [283], Pandey et
                      Healthcare (§4.2)           Clinical Management
     Scenarios                                                                             al. [206], MDAgents [135], TAO [134], HIPAA [199]

                                                                                          AIME [260], AgentClinic [235], Agent hospital [152],
                                                Environmental Simulation                   AI Hospital [64], Medco [281], MedAgentSim [5]

                                                                                                Mapcoder [117], Almorsi et al. [6], Agent-
                                                    Code Generation                             coder [110], Cocost [97], CodeAgent [314]

                                                                                           Repairagent [23], AgentFL [216], Intervenor [261],
                       Software Engi-
                                                    Program Repair                    OrcaLoca [308], Agentless [289], LocAgent [48], VulDebug-
                       neering (§4.3)
                                                                                    ger [177], Magis [256], Autocoderover [325], Rondon et al. [223]

                                                                                   Chatdev [213], MetaGPT [102], RepoAgent [179], DocAgent [297],
                                                 Full-cycle Development
                                                                                   SWE-agent [300], Openhands [275], MAAD [322], SyncMind [91]

                                                                              Generative Agents [208], MetaAgents [157], GOVSIM [211], RecAgent [267],
                    Social and Economic
                                                    Social Simulation          ElectionSim [319], GenSim [252], SOTOPIA-S4 [338], BASES [221], Mou et
                      Simulation (§4.4)
                                                                             al. [195], BotSim [214], Y SOCIAL [225], Oasis [303], SocioVerse [318], S3 [72]

                                                                               FINMEM [306], EconAgent [153], FinVision [67], Zhang et al. [317], Fin-
                                                  Economic Simulation       Con [307], Tradingagents [290], FinRobot [299], Stockagent [312], Gao et al. [74]



Fig. 7. The overview of our selected paper of agentic reasoning frameworks across different application
scenarios.


patterns of agent systems can be significantly expanded. For instance, each agent member of a
multi-agent system (§3.4) often optimizes its individual performance through prompt engineering
and self-reflection (§3.2), while invoking external tools (§3.3) to execute specific reasoning steps
based on its designated role. In Table 2, we consolidate mainstream general-purpose agentic frame-
works, detailing how they integrate methods from the different categories of our taxonomy, along
with their proposed inspirations and evaluation datasets.
   Furthermore, while our taxonomy provides a comprehensive summary of the logical structures
and collaborative patterns at the framework level, we acknowledge that researchers often incorpo-
rate optimization techniques like Supervised Fine-Tuning [73] and Reinforcement Learning [82] to
achieve superior performance [129]. To maintain a clear focus on the foundational nature of these
reasoning frameworks, we exclude these technical details from our classification. In the subsequent
chapter, we will further showcase the value of these frameworks by examining their applications
in specific scenarios.

4    Scenarios
Building upon the previous chapter’s foundational concepts, this chapter offers a panoramic view
of agentic reasoning capabilities across diverse application scenarios. Our primary goal is to
systematically compare and contrast the similarities and differences among these frameworks. We

                                                                     J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:18                                                                                      Zhao et al.


also conduct a comprehensive collection of the evaluation metrics, methodologies, and datasets
across these domains. We categorize the application scenarios into scientific research, healthcare,
software engineering, and social & economic simulations, as illustrated in Fig. 7

4.1      Scientific Research
Agent systems are increasingly becoming a cornerstone for automating various stages of scientific
inquiry. Through the implementation of well-designed reasoning pipelines, these agents enhance the
efficiency of the entire scientific workflow. We systematically review the design of agent frameworks
aimed at accelerating research, with a focus on their applications in a range of disciplines including
mathematics, astrophysics, geoscience, biochemistry, materials science, as well as general scientific
research frameworks.

4.1.1 Math. By leveraging the synergistic combination of their constituent components, agent
systems go beyond traditional reasoning methods to achieve remarkable results in specific mathe-
matical domains, including optimization and proof generation.
   As an early work, LLM4ED [58] utilizes a symbolic library to aid in equation discovery, where
the LLM iteratively proposes and refines novel equations based on natural language instructions to
outperform purely text-based methods. Subsequent research has gravitated towards multi-agent
systems that employ structured collaboration. In the realm of mathematical optimization, Optimus
[3] leverages a multi-agent system to autonomously manage the entire pipeline for mixed-integer
linear programming, including task assignment, modeling, and evaluation, while using a central
graph to track dependencies for iterative refinement. A similar hierarchical organization is also
used in computatioal fluid dynamics (CFD) field by MetaOpenFOAM [45], where role-based agents
collaboratively handle simulation design, setup, and review in a iterative closed loop. The concurrent
work MetaOpenFOAM 2.0 [46] further enhances robustness by introducing Chain of Thought (CoT)
[282] and iterative CoT strategies for complex subtask decomposition. This orchestration method
also proves effective in OptimAI [257], which solves natural language optimization problems by
hierarchically decomposing user queries and automating the full cycle of model formulation, coding,
and debugging through iterative feedback.
   Other related works focus on formal theorem proving. MA-LoT [269] employs multi-agent
collaboration to decouple the natural language cognitive task of proof generation from subsequent
error analysis. In its framework, one agent generates a complete proof, while another corrects it,
establishing a structured interaction between an LLM and the Lean4 verifier guided by a Long CoT.
Addressing the challenge of continuous learning, LeanAgent [138] optimizes its learning trajectory
based on mathematical difficulty and manages evolving knowledge through a dynamic database,
enabling stable yet plastic lifelong mathematical learning via progressive training. Besides, Prover
Agent [12] uses an informal reasoning language model for high-level thinking and a separate formal
proof model to execute the theorem-proving steps in Lean. During its reasoning process, the system
strategically creates auxiliary intermediate theorems to guide the proof and leverages feedback from
Lean to reflect upon and adjust its strategy. Furthermore, MathSensei [53] emphasizes the auxiliary
role of tool invocation in mathematical reasoning. It equips its agent with a comprehensive suite
of tools, including a knowledge retriever (powered by an LLM or Bing Web Search), a Python-
based program generator and executor, and a symbolic problem solver (Wolfram-Alpha), thereby
significantly extending the boundaries of the system’s reasoning capabilities.

4.1.2 Astrophysics. In astrophysics, agent systems are being developed to assist the research
process by managing vast, proprietary datasets through automated and scalable collaboration.
AstroAgents [228] generates hypotheses from spectral data. It employs a team of eight specialized

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                    111:19


agents that work in sequence to interpret the data, perform deep analysis on specific segments, for-
mulate hypotheses, conduct literature searches, evaluate the hypotheses, and propose refinements.
Expanding the scope to the entire scientific lifecycle, The AI Cosmologist [194] implements an
end-to-end pipeline encompassing ideation, experimental evaluation, and research dissemination.
It utilizes dedicated agents for planning, coding, execution, analysis, and synthesis, aiming to
automate the complex workflows of data analysis and machine learning research in cosmology
and astronomy. Focusing on the cosmological parameter analysis, Laverick et al.’s work [143] is
built upon AutoGen framework [287] and integrates Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to
facilitate the auxiliary analysis of cosmological data.
4.1.3 Geo-science. The integration of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) with agentic rea-
soning frameworks can significantly enhance a system’s ability to autonomously reason, deduce,
innovate, and advance geospatial solutions [159]. As a pioneering work, Autonomous GIS [158]
introduces an agent-based framework for geospatial problem analysis. The system decomposes user
requirements into ordered operational steps, constructs a flowchart, and generates Python code to
sequentially execute tasks such as data loading, spatial joins, statistical analysis, and plotting to
produce the final output. Concurrent works have specialized in particular aspects of the workflow.
Ning et al. [200] enhances the reasoning process by focusing on data retrieval. It performs au-
tonomous data discovery based on task understanding and a data-source manual, while generating
Python retrieval code via in-context learning that is iteratively executed, debugged, and refined by
the framework. Moreover, Pantiukhin et al. [207] leverages a centralized Multi-Agent System and a
suite of earth science tools for data processing, analysis, and visualization. Crucially, it incorporates
a reflection module to contemplate evaluation outcomes and drive iterative improvements to its
plan. Besides, GeoLLM-Squad [144] targets on Remote Sensing (RS) workflows. Built upon the
AutoGen [287] and GeoLLM-Engine [243] frameworks, it modularizes RS applications by decom-
posing complex tasks and assigning them to specialized sub-agents, covering areas such as urban
monitoring, forestry conservation, climate analysis, and agricultural research.
   Further research has focused on improving the quality and scope of agent-based geospatial
analysis. To mitigate subjective bias in domain-specific question answering, Wang et al. [265]
utilizes RAG and online search to comprehensively gather relevant information. The system then
employs a CoT [282] process to integrate and reflect upon this information, ensuring reliable
geospatial analysis. Pushing the boundaries of task complexity, GeoAgent [108] builds upon RAG
by incorporating Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to plan and execute multi-step analyses. Starting
from a natural language description, it iteratively generates, runs, and debugs multi-step code.
GeoAgent [108] also introduced the Geocode Benchmark, a comprehensive suite of single and
multi-turn tasks involving data acquisition, analysis, and visualization to evaluate agents in diverse
geospatial contexts. Venturing into multi-modal understanding, GeoMap-Agent [113] pioneers the
use of a Multi-modal Large Language Model (MLLM) to interpret geological maps. It performs hier-
archical information extraction to segment the map and identify salient elements. This is followed
by retrieving domain knowledge from an expert database, which is integrated into an enhanced
prompt to enable precise question answering. GeoMap-Agent [113] also introduce GeoMap-Bench,
the first benchmark designed to assess the geological map understanding capabilities of MLLMs
across a full spectrum of skills, including extraction, referring, localization, reasoning, and analysis.
4.1.4 Biochemistry and Material Science. The advent of deep learning has significantly enhanced
research productivity across the life sciences [1], and the rise of agentic systems is now further
pushing the boundaries of workflow automation. In this section, we survey the application of
agentic reasoning in this domain, which we categorize into five primary areas: (1) drug discovery
and design, (2) genetic and biological experiment design, (3) chemical synthesis, (4) material science,

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:20                                                                                        Zhao et al.




Fig. 8. A summarization of pipeline proposed by BioDiscovery-Agent [224], base on our proposed taxonomy.
Such framework could allows a iterative experimental design with dynamic context update. Image is edited
from [224].


and (5) research automation. These work across different sub-scenarios cover a wide range of
targets, thus their evaluation strategies are very different. As illustrated in Table 3, we summarize
their evaluation strategies in metrics level, benchmark or dataset level, and case study methods,
respectively. Furthermore, as several applications in biochemistry have direct extensions to clinical
practice, they will be discussed in greater detail in Section §4.2.
   Drug Discovery. In drug discovery and design, agentic systems must balance user requirements
with scientific principles to achieve precise molecular engineering. Several works have explored
centralized or single-agent architectures to this end. ChatDrug [172] integrates retrieval tools to
fetch similar molecules with desired attributes from knowledge bases, translating editing tasks
into structured instructions to contextualize the reasoning process. It further leverages a dialogue
module to iteratively refine molecules based on user feedback. Similarly, LIDDiA [11] employs a
four-component architecture – reasoner, executor, evaluator, and memory – to guide molecular
design, extensively using tool calls to simulate molecular docking, predict properties, and opti-
mize structures according to personalized specifications. Moreover, DrugAgent [114] simulates a
collaborative research team using CoT [282] and ReAct paradigms [304] to predict Drug-Target In-
teractions (DTI). It can forecast DTI scores, compute interaction metrics, search domain knowledge,
and generate a final prediction with a detailed explanation.
   Other frameworks utilize hierarchical Multi-Agent Systems (MAS) to decompose the complex
drug discovery pipeline. PharmAgents [71] divides the process into four stages: target discovery,
lead identification and optimization, and preclinical evaluation. Each stage is managed by dedicated
agents equipped with distinct tools, which collaborate via structured knowledge exchange and
self-improve by reflecting on past experiences. CLADD [145] also adopts a hierarchical structure for
discovery and question-answering, combining it with a RAG approach. It breaks down reasoning
into planning, knowledge graph querying, molecular understanding, and prediction, and can
dynamically select tools based on a query molecule’s structural similarity to known drugs in a
knowledge graph. Specifically focusing on the human-agent interface, ChatChemTS [116] enables
users to design new molecules by automatically constructing a reward function for specified
properties purely through natural language interaction.
  Genomics and Biological Experiment Design. In genomics and biological experiment design,
agentic systems are tasked with analyzing, decomposing, and implementing user requirements,

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                                                                 111:21


thereby assisting researchers to handle complex experimental workflows. As a representative work,
BioDiscovery-Agent [224] iteratively designs gene perturbation experiments by integrating prior
results and knowledge into its reasoning context, as illustrated in Fig.8. In each cycle, it constructs
prompts to guide the design of small-batch experiments, prioritizing genes likely to produce
significant phenotypic effects. This process involves invoking other agents for critical evaluation,
literature searches, and data analysis to enable efficient identification of gene functions. Similarly,
CRISPR-GPT [218] offers multiple interaction modes, decomposes gene editing experiments into
manageable steps for in-context learning, and integrates external tools to achieve automation.
   Other approaches focus on model customiza-
tion and workflow robustness. Bio-Agents [188] Table 3. An overview of the evaluation strategies of
is built upon a small language model (SLM) fine- agentic reasoning frameworks in Biochemistry and Ma-
tuned on bioinformatics data and enhanced terial Science. We summarize them from three levels.
with RAG, enabling personalized operations In metrics level, the specific response of the framework
and the analysis of local or proprietary data. Au- is directly evaluated. Benchmark and Dataset level fur-
toBA [336] concentrates on automating multi- ther utilizes domain-specific data and standard to eval-
omics analysis, capable of self-designing the an- uate the responses. In case study, the framework will
                                                   be evaluated through several real-world tasks, gener-
alytical process in response to changes in input
                                                   ally the ground truth is clear.
data and enhancing system robustness through
automated code repair. To simplify bioinformat-                                                Metrics Level
ics workflows, BioMaster [249] uses a Multi-                  Focus               Related Work                                   Metrics

Agent System (MAS) for task decomposition,                Lab-envolved
                                                       Biomedical Research
                                                                                BioResearcher[180]
                                                                                                              Completeness, Level of Detail, Correctness,
                                                                                                                Logical Soundness, Structural Soundness

execution, and validation. It employs RAG to dy-      High-fidelity Materials
                                                       Knowledge Retrieval
                                                                                    LLAMP[49]
                                                                                                             Precision, coefficient of precision, confidence,
                                                                                                                   self-consistency of response, MAE

namically retrieve domain-specific knowledge             Drug Discovery              Liddia[11]
                                                                                                             drug-likeness[21], Lipinski’s Rule of Five[165],
                                                                                                           synthetic accessibility[62], binding affinities[259]

and introduces input-output validation to im-                                           Benchmark/Dataset Level


prove adaptability and stability when handling                Focus               Related Work                            Benchmark/Dataset
                                                                                                                Schmidt et al.[236], Carnevale et al.[27],
                                                       Genetic Perturbation
new tools and niche analyses.                        Experiment Designation
                                                                              BiodiscoveryAgent[224]          Scharenberg et al.[231], Sanchez et al.[230],
                                                                                                                 Horlbeck et al.[104], OpenTargets[201]

                                                                                   Quantum Chemistry     El Agente[341]              Armstrong et al.[9]

   Chemical Synthesis and Design. In chemical           Drug Discovery                    Liddia[11]                          pdb[20], CheMBL[19]
                                                    Chemical Tool Invocation                                       ChemLLMBench[90], ChEBI-20-MM[170],
synthesis, early agentic systems focused on op-          Optimization
                                                                                       ChemHTS[160]
                                                                                                                     USPTO-MIT[124], MoleculeNet[288]
                                                         Tool-assisted
timizing reaction conditions and automating           Molecular discovery
                                                                                        CACTUS[187]                               CACTUS[187]

                                                  Mendelian Diseases Diagnose           MD2GPS[337]                 SCH[109], JN[337], DDD[69], RD[316]
complex workflows. Chemist-X [36] designed a Automated Bioinformatics
                                                                                       BioMaster[249]                Morey et al.[193], [51], Rao et al.[220]
multi-stage reasoning system to optimize reac-              Analysis
                                                                                                                     MoleculeNet[288], Proposing hub[52],

tion conditions. It first retrieved reaction con-  RAG-based Drug Discovery             CLADD[145]                 drugbank[285],STITCH[251], hERG[272],
                                                                                                                     DILI[293],Skin[7],Lagunin et al.[140]

ditions from a database via hierarchical match- full drug discovery workflow PharmAgent[71]                            crossdocked[70], Pharmagent[71]
                                                     Drug-target Interaction
ing, then used a CAD tool to recommend yield-              Prediction
                                                                                       DrugAgent[114]                         Anastassiadis et al.[8]

                                                         Drug Editing                   Liu et al.[172]          Rao et al.[219], MHCflurry 2.0[202],ZINC[115]
improving conditions, and finally translated
                                                         Gene-Editing                 Crispr-GPT[218]                        Gene-editing bench[218]
these recommendations into validated experi- Chemical Hypothesis Discovery Moose-Chem[302]                                      Moose-chem[302]

mental operations. Similarly, Ruan et al. [226]                                                       Case Study
                                                     ProtAgents[78], Stewart et al.[246], PharmAgent[71], CLADD[145], TourSynbio-search[176], AutoBA[336],
decomposes chemical synthesis development                AI-HOPE[298], ChatMOF[128], Chemist-X[36], Ruan et al.[226], ChatChemTS[116], El Agent[341],
                                                                                           ChemCrow[24], AtomAgents[79].
into six sub-stages: literature search, experi-
mental design, hardware execution, spectral
analysis, product separation, and result inter-
pretation. Each stage is executed by a dedicated agent, sequentially accomplishing the entire
workflow. Moreover, ChemCrow [24] incorporated 18 expert-designed chemistry tools, demon-
strating their efficacy by successfully automating the design of an organic catalyst synthesis.
   Other systems tackle more specialized or abstract challenges within chemistry. El Agente Q [341]
dynamically generates and executes quantum chemistry workflows from natural language prompts,
leveraging a hierarchical multi-agent memory framework for task decomposition, adaptive tool

                                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:22                                                                                       Zhao et al.


selection, and autonomous post-analysis. Targeting the upstream process of scientific inquiry,
MOOSE-Chem [302] focuses on autonomous chemical hypothesis discovery. It formalizes this
process by decomposing a base hypothesis into a research context and a set of “inspirations”,
which then guide the sub-tasks of retrieving, combining, and ranking new hypotheses. Stewart et
al. [246] sequentially identifies engineering goals, generates a large pool of candidate molecules
through rational steps and knowledge extraction, and then analyzes them by structure and charge
distribution to achieve molecular optimization.
   Material Science. As one of the early works, ChatMoF [128] constructed a system for predicting
and generating Metal-Organic Frameworks (MOFs). It can autonomously select and invoke spe-
cialized tool-kits based on user requirements, making decisions iteratively based on tool outputs
and internal evaluations. This is achieved through four distinct functional agent components re-
sponsible for MOF database searching, internet searching, performance prediction, and material
generation. Concurrently, LLaMP [49] combines a hierarchical ReAct framework [304] with a
multi-modal, retrieval-augmented one to dynamically and recursively interact with computational
and experimental data on the Materials Project (MP) database, running atomic simulations via a
high-throughput workflow interface. Furthermore, AtomAgents [79] proposes a physics-aware
approach to alloy design. Its multi-agent system autonomously implements the entire material
design pipeline – from knowledge retrieval and multi-modal data integration to physics-based
simulation and cross-modal comprehensive result analysis.
   Biochemical Automated Research. Beyond optimizing for specialized domains, several works have
proposed systematic designs from the broader perspective of automating biochemical research.
These systems often focus on sophisticated agent orchestration and interaction. For instance,
ProtAgents [78] is a task-centric multi-agent system that decomposes the protein design and
analysis process into multiple stages. It employs a predefined chat manager as a central hub to
dynamically select appropriate agents and manage their communication. Based on distinct role
and tool assignments, these agents collaborate to propose protein designs, execute physical simula-
tions, predict structures, and iteratively reflect upon, evaluate, and refine the designs. Similarly,
Toursynbio-search [176] implements a user-driven research system where each specialized agent
has an independent keyword list. It uses fuzzy matching against the classified user intent to se-
lect the right agent, then initiates a validation process, generating an interactive page for user
verification and supplementation when parameters are ambiguous.
   Other systems introduce specific mechanisms to improve the research workflow. BioResearcher
[180] decomposes research tasks (retrieval, planning, analysis) and assigns them within a hierarchi-
cal agent architecture. Crucially, it introduces a reviewer agent to ensure quality control throughout
the process and iteratively optimizes the research plan via internal evaluation. Focusing on tool use,
CACTUS [187] utilizes the LangChain architecture for sequential problem analysis, tool review, and
selection. This reasoning cycle repeats until the problem is solved, allowing the system to learn the
characteristics and applicability of different tools through iteration. ChemHTS [160] further refines
tool-calling strategy with a hierarchical tool stack. It first conducts a “self-stacking warm-up” phase
to explore tool capabilities and limitations, then recursively combines tools to find the optimal
calling path, using selective information transfer and tool encapsulation to keep the focus on the
primary task.
4.1.5 General Research. The problem-solving capabilities of agentic frameworks can be generalized
from specialized, domain-specific tasks to broader research inquiries. These systems are designed to
operate from an initial prompt to the final deliverable of a detailed research report. Here we classify
these scenarios into literature survey, end-to-end research automation, research collaboration and

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                                                                 111:23


refinement. Table 4 summarize different metrics and datasets used in each selected work, with their
specific focus about general research. We also conclude the work that use case study or subjective
methods to evaluate their work.

    Literature Survey. Automating literature sur-
veys requires systems to process and orches-          Table 4. An Overview of Evaluation Strategies of Agen-
trate vast amounts of domain literature to gen-       tic Frameworks in General Research. We summarize
erate comprehensive and coherent reviews. Au-         them from four levels. In metrics level, the output lit-
tosurvey [276] first retrieves relevant literature    erature from framework is directly evaluated. Bench-
via semantic search and generates a prelimi-          mark and Dataset level further provides and filters
nary outline. It then employs multiple agents to      several literature with high quality and diverse themes.
concurrently draft each section, retrieving ad-       In case study, the framework will be used to complete
                                                      a real-world research task, and generally evaluated by
ditional literature to produce text with accurate
                                                      domain-specific professionals. LLM-as-a-judge or hu-
citations. After drafting, the system integrates      man evaluation tend to evaluate the output literature
and refines the content, using multi-LLM-as-          of framework from several subjective metrics.
judge setup to score the survey’s quality and
coverage for iterative improvement. Similarly,                                                          Metrics Level

SurveyX [163] automates this process in two                    Focus                Related Work                                    Metrics

                                                                                   AutoSurvey [276]                 Survey Creation Speed, Content Quality
phases: a preparation phase that uses an at-                                         Gao et al. [76]                            Citation Quality

tribute tree structure to acquire and preprocess         Paper Generation
                                                                                    SurveyX [163]          Insertion over Union, semantic-based reference relevance
                                                                                  SurveyForge [296]         Reference, Outline, and Content Quality (SAM Metrics)
literature, and a generation phase that performs             Quality
                                                                                Agent Laboratory [234]            Inference cost, Inference time, Success Rate

both coarse and fine-grained content creation                                        Su et al. [247]                        Proxy MSE, Proxy MAE
                                                                                                             Historical Dissimilarity, Contemporary Dissimilarity,
                                                                                      VirSci [248]
from an initial plan. RAG is leveraged to ensure                                                                             Contemporary Impact

                                                                                                 Benchmark/Dataset Level
citation accuracy during rewriting and to sup-                 Focus                Related Work          Type              Benchmark/Dataset                #Papers

port multi-media content generation. Besides,             Idea Generation        Research Agent [14]                         ResearchAgent [14]                  300
                                                        Survey Automation         SurveyForge [296]                          SurveyBench [296]                   100
Surveyforge [296] combines a library of human-          Research Assistants     Agent Laboratory [234]
                                                                                                           Off-
                                                                                                           line                Mle-bench [32]                     -

written outlines with domain-specific papers to        Research Improvement     CycleResearcher [284]                   Review-5k/ research-14k[284]         ∼5k/∼14k
                                                        Scientific Innovation     AI-Researcher [253]                       Scientist-Bench [253]                22
generate a new outline via in-context learning.                                   ReserachAgent [14]              Semantic Scholar Academic Graph API∗            -
                                                                                                           On-
It introduces a memory-driven framework with              Idea Generation
                                                                                      VirSci [234]         line       AMiner Computer Science dataset†           ∼2M
                                                                                                                         Open Academic Graph 3.1‡             ∼131M
multi-layer sub-query and retrieval memories                                                             Case Study
to refine the search process, followed by filter-              IdeaSynth[212], The AI Scientist[178], Towards an AI co-scientist[83], Robin[81], SciAgents[80]


ing and reconstruction stages for content inte-                                         LLM-as-a-Judge/Human Evaluation
                                                            ResearchAgent[14], AutoSurvey[276], SurveyX[163],Agent Laboratory[234],The AI Scientist v2[294],
                                                                                       Cycleresearcher[284],AI co-scientist[83]
gration and parallel text generation. This work        ∗ https://www.semanticscholar.org/product/api


also contributes Surveybench, a benchmark for          † https://www.aminer.cn/aminernetwork

                                                       ‡ https://open.aminer.cn/open/article?id=65bf053091c938e5025a31e2

quantitatively evaluating survey quality across
multiple dimensions.

   End-to-End Research Automation. Moving beyond knowledge synthesis, end-to-end research
automation aims to emulate the entire scientific lifecycle for a given topic, often by mimicking
real-world research workflows. As a representative work, Agent Laboratory [234] actualizes a
user’s research idea through a multi-stage, hierarchical architecture covering literature retrieval,
experimental planning, code generation, result analysis, and report writing, integrating human
feedback at each stage for quality assurance. Many similar works decompose the research process
to achieve automation. The AI Scientist [178] decompose scientific discovery into five stages
(ideation, experiment design, execution, paper writing, and peer review), guiding agents with
structured instructions. AI Scientist-v2 [294] further introduces an experimental parameter space
and a tree-search algorithm to optimize the research process, incorporating a vision-language model
(VLM) to provide feedback on generated figures and text. Notably, papers generated by this system

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:24                                                                                      Zhao et al.


have passed peer review at ICLR workshop4 . Moreover, AI-Reseracher [253] adopt a four-stage
decomposition of the research pipeline from literature review, hypothesis generation, algorithm
implementation to manuscript writing. AI-Reseracher [253] also propose Scientist-Bench, which
comprises recent papers spanning diverse AI research areas and includes both guided-innovation
and open-ended exploration tasks. Moreover, Robin [81] facilitates semi-autonomous discovery by
progressing through four stages: hypothesis generation, experimental design, result interpretation,
and hypothesis updating. Besides, Papercoder [238] automates the reproduction of code from
machine learning papers. It uses three dedicated agents for a three-stage process: a planning stage
to create a high-level roadmap, an analysis stage to interpret specific implementation details, and a
generation stage to produce modular, dependency-aware code.
   Research Collaboration and Refinement. There are some emergent research focuses on intro-
ducing specific mechanisms for collaboration and refinement to enhance the quality, creativity,
and efficiency of automated science. A significant direction is improving idea and hypothesis
generation through multi-agent interaction. ResearchAgent [14] iteratively refines research ideas
by integrating core papers, their citation network, and feedback from a panel of “reviewer agents”
to mimic peer review and foster innovation. Similarly, VirSci [248] uses multi-agent dialogue –
spanning collaborator selection, topic discussion, and novelty assessment – to generate ideas, while
AI co-scientist [83] employs a hierarchical agent team for critical debate to propose, critique, and
refine hypotheses. Notably, this system also presents a fully-automated end-to-end research abilities
based on the widely debate and iteratively refinement between agent with different roles.
   Another key direction is the refinement of the research process and agent capabilities. Cy-
cleResearcher [284] proposes an iterative training framework that simulates the “research-review-
improve” academic closed loop to enhance generated paper quality, contributing two large datasets
for this purpose. Furthermore, SciAgents [80] leverages an ontology knowledge graph for structured
reasoning, while Scimaster [29] uses a decentralized, stacked workflow to scale reasoning depth and
breadth. At the ecosystem level, Agentrxiv [233] constructs a scientific ecosystem where multiple
Agent Laboratories [234] can collaborate asynchronously. By using a centralized preprint server,
independent agent teams can upload, share, and retrieve research, forming a dynamic knowledge
commons that enables cumulative, collaborative scientific discovery.

4.2      Healthcare
The advent of powerful foundational Large Language Models is reshaping the landscape of health-
care by empowering agentic systems with new capabilities. This transformation facilitates a critical
shift from reactive, predictive functions to proactive, interactive engagement in clinical workflows.
These advanced agents are increasingly leveraged to resolve chronic issues surrounding clinical
efficiency, diagnostic precision, and the quality of patient care. As summarized in Table 5, a wide
range of evaluation datasets as well as methods are used to evaluate these framework. Accordingly,
we survey these works through diagnostic assistance, clinical management, and environmental
simulation.
4.2.1 Diagnosis Assistance. To augment diagnostic capabilities, one primary research focus involves
creating multi-agent dialogue frameworks that deconstruct the complex diagnostic process into
manageable, collaborative phases. As an early work, MedAgents [254] established a role-playing
environment where agents representing different medical experts achieve a consensus through
independent analysis and iterative discussion. Concurrently, Wang et al. [270] designed a virtual
medical team that includes a physician, a patient, and an examiner in order to model the consultation
4 https://github.com/SakanaAI/AI-Scientist-ICLR2025-Workshop-Experiment/



J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                                                                                     111:25


flow across inquiry, examination, and diagnosis, guided by a hierarchical action set for dynamic
responses. Similarly, Chen et al. [44] employed an admin agent for user information, doctor
agents for diagnosis via dialogue, and a supervisor agent to ensure diagnostic consistency. Besides,
RareAgents [41] focuses on rare diseases, featuring a primary physician agent that collaborates
with multiple specialist agents over several rounds of discussion, integrating dynamic long-term
memory and medical tools for personalized diagnostics.
   Beyond simulating dialogue, other frame-
works enhance diagnostic reasoning by inte- Table 5. An Overview of Evaluation Strategies of Agen-
grating external knowledge bases and data- tic Frameworks in Healthcare. We summarize them
driven debate mechanisms. KG4Diagnosis [342] from four levels. In benchmark and dataset Level, the
utilizes a hierarchical multi-agent structure framework is evaluate through domain-specific data
where a general practitioner agent first con- with specific metrics; System level will evaluate the
ducts triage before coordinating with specialist framework as a whole, with specific techniques; In en-
agents who perform in-depth diagnosis leverag- vironmental level, the framework is evaluated within
                                                    a simulated healthcare environment, while the case
ing a knowledge graph. This approach features
                                                    study tend to evaluate the system through real-world
an end-to-end pipeline for semantic knowledge cases, with ground truth provided.
extraction and human-guided reasoning, there-
fore improving system extensibility. MD2GPS                                                                Benchmark/Dataset Level

[337] introduces a multi-agent debate system                           Focus                        Related Work                                Benchmark/Dataset

                                                             Clinical Consultation Flow             Wang et al.[270]                                 MVME[64]
driven by both existing literature and patient                                                                                      Jin et al.[121],Pal et al.[203],Pubmedqa[123],
                                                            Zero-shot Medical Reasoning             MedAgents[254]
data to diagnose Mendelian diseases effectively.                                                                                                 Hendrycks et al.[98]

                                                              Automated supervision of                                                 Safetybench[327],Medsafetybench[95],
   A parallel research direction empowers                        Healthcare Safety
                                                                                                    TAO[134]
                                                                                                                                   Chang et al.[33], Hu et al.[106],Wang et al.[273]


agents with tools for autonomous data anal-                   Evolvable Medical Agents              MDAgents[135]
                                                                                                                                   MedQA[121], PubMedQA[123],MedBullets[35],
                                                                                                                                        JAMA[35],DDXPlus[66],SymCat[4],

ysis and evidence synthesis, transitioning                                                                                Path-VQA[96],PMC-VQA[320],MedVidQA[93],MIMIC-CXR[13]

                                                                                                                                       Pre-Diagnosis, Diagnosis, Medicament,
them from communicators to actors. AI-HOPE                  Healthcare Intent Awareness             Medaide[283]
                                                                                                                                              Post-Diagnosis Bench[283]

[298] can interpret natural language com-               Multimodal Tool-integration Diagnosis       MMedAgent[149]            VQA-RAD[142], Slake[167],Pmc-vqa[320],Pathvqa[96]

                                                                                                                                           DrugPC, BrandPC, GenericPC,
mands into executable code, enabling it to au-            Tool-assist Therapeutic Reasoning         TxAgent[75]
                                                                                                                                          DescriptionPC, TreatmentPC[75]

tonomously analyze locally stored data for pre-                Rare Disease Curation                RareAgent[41]                          RareBench[43],MIMIC-IV[125]

                                                                    clinical trial                  Clinical Agent[309]
cision medicine research through tasks like as-                                                                                         DrugBank 5.0[285],Himmelstein[100]

                                                                                                                                 Refuge2 challenge[65],MITEA[330], MIMIC-IV[125],
                                                               Multi-modal Diagnosis                MedAgent-pro[279]
sociation studies and survival analysis. More-                                                                                                 Nejm image challenge∗


over, TxAgent [75] introduces ToolUniverse, a               Mendelian Diseases Diagnose

                                                           clinical environment simulation
                                                                                                    MD2GPS[337]

                                                                                                    MedAgentSim[5]
                                                                                                                                        SCH[109], JN[337],DDD[69], RD[316]

                                                                                                                                      NEJM[235], MedQA[121],MIMIC-IV[125]
comprehensive suite of 211 specialized medical                                                                     System Level

tools. By invoking these tools, the agent can                          Focus
                                                           Knowledge Graph Enhancement
                                                                                                    Related Work                                      Methods

                                                                                                    KG4Diagnosis[342]
retrieve and synthesize evidence from multiple                 for Medical Diagnosis
                                                           Multi-modal Medical Diagnosis            MedAgent-pro[279]                            Human Evaluation

sources, consider drug interactions and patient        Benchmarking multimodal medical agent Agentclinic[235]

                                                        Multimodal tool-integration Diagnosis       MmedAgent[149]                       Open-ended Medical Dialogue[150]
history, and iteratively refine treatment recom-           Medical Necessity Justification          Pandey et al.[206]
                                                                                                                                                Parent and Leaf node
                                                                                                                                              Judgement with accuracy
mendations.                                                                                                  Environmental Level
                                                                               Environment                                  Related Work                    Simulation Focus
   Addressing the heterogeneous nature of real-                           Entire Illness Treating                         Agent Hospital[152]            Evolvable Medical Agents

world medical data, recent efforts have focused                         Doctor-Patient Interaction                          AI Hospital[64]            Medical Interaction Simulator


on developing multi-modal diagnostic agents.                          Multimodal clinical interaction                      AgentClinic[235]            Multimodal agent benchmark

                                                                                                                    Case Study
Mmedagent [149] constructs a system where                                                       AIME[260], AI-HOPE[298], Clinical Agent[309]


a Multi-modal Large Language Model (MLLM)              ∗ https://www.nejm.org/image-challenge




acts as a planner, orchestrating a four-step pro-
cess of user input interpretation, action planning, tool execution, and result aggregation, enhancing
its tool-use proficiency via in-context learning. Similarly, MedAgent-Pro [279] adopts a hierarchi-
cal agentic workflow. It first retrieves clinical guidelines using Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) to formulate a diagnostic plan. It then employs sequential tool calls to analyze the patient’s
multi-modal data, generating a final report that includes diagnostic evidence.

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:26                                                                                          Zhao et al.




Fig. 9. Pipeline of AIME [260]. The framework is built upon two self-play loops. a) Inner Loop: a doctor
agent continuously optimize its behavior based on real-time feedback from a Critic module during simulated
dialogues. b) Outer Loop: the optimized simulated dialogues and other data will be gathered to improve
(fine-tune) the Reasoning System, using an evaluation-feedback process to drive the model’s continuous
improvement. For real-time user interaction (reasoning process shown on the right), the system uses multi-
step CoT reasoning and conversational context to ensure each output is accurate and well-grounded. Image
is edited from Tu et al. [260]


4.2.2 Clinical Management and Automation. Recently, in order to efficiently manage and analyze
complex medical information, a growing number of research are focusing on adapting general-
purpose agentic management and automation systems. For instance, ClinicalAgent [309] utilizes
a hierarchical multi-agent architecture to predict clinical trial outcomes, assessing drug efficacy,
safety, and patient recruitment feasibility based on external data sources and predictive mod-
els. Other systems target the automation of healthcare services; Medaide [283], performs query
rewriting via RAG and uses contextual encoding to identify fine-grained user intents. This process
activates relevant agents to collaborate based on role assignments, delivering personalized diagnos-
tic suggestions and department recommendations. Furthermore, Pandy et al. [206] explores the
justification of prior authorizations by first reasoning over clinical guidelines and then employing
a two-stage collaborative framework to decompose the problem into solvable sub-tasks for each
agent.
   However, directly implementing multi-agent collaboration can lead to challenges such as incom-
patible medical information flows and low component efficiency [16]. To enhance adaptability and
dynamism, MDAgents [135] introduces a moderator agent that dynamically assembles appropriate
multi-agent structures based on the complexity of the medical problem. This framework can config-
ure specialized teams, such as a Primary Care Clinician, a Multidisciplinary Team, or an Integrated
Care Team, and selectively employs reflection, iterative optimization, and collaborative methods to
improve response accuracy. In order to further address limitations like potential single points of
failure, TAO [134] proposes a tiered agentic operator framework to bolster system security and
reliability. In this hierarchical structure, an “Agent Recruiter” selects medical agents based on safety
benchmarks, while an “Agent Router” assesses and assigns them to different security tiers. The
recruited agents then engage in hierarchical cooperation under strict safety protocols, enabling
effective end-to-end supervision, which also incorporates possibilities for human oversight. This
trend towards structured and secure workflows is underscored by the push for systems that can
navigate the complexities of sensitive data and automated decisions while adhering to regulatory
standards [199].
4.2.3 Environmental Simulation. Given that the healthcare domain is characterized by heteroge-
neous data which could be hard to collect, a significant line of research focuses on simulating
realistic medical environments to enable agents to continuously optimize their performance through
interactive learning. As a representative work, AIME [260] simulates a diagnostic environment

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                    111:27


with physician, patient, and referee roles. By leveraging role-playing and CoT [282] strategies, it
allows an agent to self-tune its diagnostic capabilities using dialogue data within an automated
feedback loop, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
   Moreover, AgentClinic [235] constructs a more complex multi-modal clinical simulation, focusing
on patient interaction, data collection with incomplete information, and medical tool usage. The
paradigm takes a major leap forward with Agent Hospital [152], which creates a simulated hospital
where agents can evolve autonomously based on task resolution, learning from both successful
treatments and failed cases without reliance on manually annotated data.
   Beyond agent training, these simulated environments also serve as sophisticated testbeds for
evaluation and as platforms for medical education. For instance, AI Hospital [64] establishes a
dynamic evaluation environment by simulating four distinct roles (physician, patient, inspector,
and director) and introduces the corresponding MVME benchmark. Its decentralized, role-based
setup allows for the assessment of an agent’s capabilities in symptom collection, examination
recommendation, diagnosis, and dispute resolution. As for medical education, Medco [281] builds a
collaborative learning system by simulating multi-disciplinary scenarios where student agents can
interact with patient agents, expert physicians, and radiologists to proactively gather information
and refine their diagnostic decisions. Besides, MedAgentSim [5] presents a comprehensive sim-
ulation that requires agents to engage in multi-round, multi-modal interactions. It incorporates
a self-improvement mechanism based on historical context and, notably, supports direct human
interaction with the agents within the simulated environment.

4.3   Software Engineering
In contrast to Large Language Models specialized in code generation, agentic systems leverage a
rich ecosystem of external tools to address a broader spectrum of software engineering tasks. This
subsection examines the application of these agents in three key areas: code generation and testing,
program repair, and full-lifecycle software development.

4.3.1 Code Generation and Testing. In the domain of code generation and testing, agentic systems
significantly amplify the capabilities of LLMs beyond simple fine-tuning. These systems introduce
structured collaboration and external tools, enhancing both the efficiency and reliability of code
generation. Table.6 demonstrates the performance of the selected agentic coding frameworks on
popular benchmarks. A primary approach involves decomposing the coding process using multi-
agent frameworks that emulate human programmer workflows. Mapcoder [117] decouples code
generation into four collaborating LLM agents for retrieval, planning, coding, and debugging. The
framework features a dynamic agent traversal model that adapts based on confidence scores from
the planning phase, alongside plan-guided debugging and autonomous retrieval. Similarly, Almorsi
et al. [6] implements a deliberately structured and fine-grained approach, utilizing LLMs as fuzzy
searchers and approximate information retrievers. This multi-agent system effectively compensates
for the inherent limitations of LLMs in long-sequence reasoning and long-context understanding.
Moreover, Agentcoder [110] pioneers a test-driven development (TDD) approach. It employs three
distinct agents responsible for initial code generation, test case creation, and test execution with
feedback. This test-driven iterative refinement loop enables the generation of higher-quality code
with more efficient token usage.
   Another major focuses is augmenting LLMs with external tools to improve code quality and
mitigate hallucination. CoCoST [97] introduces a framework where a task planner decomposes
complex problems, an online search module acquires external knowledge, and a code generator iter-
ates with a correctness tester to fix latent bugs. Moreover, CodeAgent [314] integrates five distinct
programming tools for repository-level code generation. Through rule-based tool usage, the system

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:28                                                                                                        Zhao et al.


Table 6. Performance Comparison of Different Code Generation Methods on Popular Benchmarks with
Pass@1. We first demonstrates the performance of popular foundation LLMs, then collect several popular
baseline prompt methods with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, respectively. After that, we illustrate the performance of
several work mentioned in this survey, with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, respectively.

                                                          HumanEval-ET              MBPP-ET
      Method               Model          HumanEval[38]                  MBPP[10]           DS-1000[141]   EvalPlus[169]
                                                              [38]                    [56]
         -                GPT-3.5              57.3           42.7         52.2       36.8        -            66.5
         -                 GPT-4               67.6           50.6         68.3       52.2        -             -
         -                 GPT-4o              90.2            -            -          -          -             -
         -            Claude-3.5 Sonnet        92.0            -            -          -          -             -
      CoT[282]                                 44.6           37.2         46.1       34.8        -            65.2
     ReAct[304]                                56.9           49.4         67.0       45.9        -            66.5
   Reflexion[241]         GPT-3.5              68.1           50.6         70.0       47.5        -            62.2
 Self-planning[119]                            65.2           48.8         58.6       41.5        -             -
 Self-debugging[42]                            61.6           45.8         60.1       52.3        -             -
      CoT[282]                                 89.0           73.8         81.1       54.7        -            81.7
   Reflexion[241]          GPT-4               91.0           78.7         78.3       51.9        -            81.7
 Self-debugging[42]                             -              -           80.6        -          -             -
  AgentCoder[110]                              79.9           77.4         89.9       84.1        -              -
    Dong et al.
                          GPT-3.5              74.4           56.1         68.2       49.5        -              -
       [57]
 INTERVENOR[261]                                -              -            -          -         39.7           -
   Mapcoder[117]                               80.5           70.1         78.3       54.4        -            71.3
    CoCoST[97]                                  -              -            -          -         68.0           -
   Mapcoder[117]                               93.9           82.9         83.1       57.7        -            83.5
   MetaGPT[102]                                85.9            -           87.7        -          -             -
   AgentVerse[39]          GPT-4               89.0            -           73.5        -          -             -
   ChatDev[213]                                84.1            -           79.8        -          -             -
   Dong et al.[57]                             90.2           70.7         78.9       62.1        -             -
  AgentCoder[110]                              96.3           86.0         91.8       91.8        -             -



interacts with various software artifacts, iteratively performing information retrieval, code symbol
navigation, and code testing. The authors also introduced CodeBench, a comprehensive benchmark
for repository-level code generation, featuring code repositories across multiple domains.
4.3.2 Program Repair. Complementary to code generation, automated program repair (APR) is
another cornerstone of Agent System in software engineering. During the multi-step reasoning
process, they could systematically understanding code, localizing faults, generating patches, and
validating fixes, often through sophisticated tool use and collaborative strategies. Table 7 shows
the performance of selected APR agentic frameworks on popular software repair benchmarks.
   A common strategy is to decompose the complex repair process into a structured workflow.
RepairAgent [23] formalizes this into four stages: defect information collection, fault localization,
patch generation, and validation, using a state machine to dynamically select tools and adapt its
strategy. Similarly, AgentFL [216] employs a multi-agent system to infer defect causes, search for
relevant context using program instrumentation, and validate fixes, leveraging multi-turn dialogue
to manage context length. Inventor [261] introduced an interactive “repair chain” concept, where a
“code teacher” agent analyzes compiler errors to generate natural language suggestions, guiding
a “code learner” agent in an iterative repair process. Agentless [289] simplifies the process into
three phases – locate, fix, and validate – using a hierarchical strategy that combines semantic
understanding with code embedding retrieval to rapidly identify suspicious code snippets.
   A critical sub-task within this workflow is precise fault localization. Several specialized agents
have been developed for this purpose. OrcaLoca [308] focuses on efficient localization by using
dynamic priority scheduling and relevance scoring to prioritize actions, along with distance-aware
context pruning to filter irrelevant code. LocAgent [48] introduces a novel graph-based approach,

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                          111:29


parsing the codebase into a directed heterogeneous graph that captures structural dependencies,
enabling an LLM agent to perform effective multi-hop reasoning for entity localization. Meanwhile,
VulDebugger [177] utilizes both static and dynamic program analysis, continuously comparing the
actual program state (observed via a debugger) with the expected state (inferred from constraints)
to identify and rectify errors.
   Building on these principles, recent frame-
works aim to provide end-to-end solutions for Table 7. Performance Comparison on Popular Software
real-world scenarios like resolving GitHub is- Repair Benchmarks with Pass@1. We first present the
sues. MAGIS [256] employs a centralized archi- performance of foundation LLMs on these benchmarks,
tecture with four agents orchestrated by a cen- then provide the performance of different methods
tral controller to manage task decomposition, mentioned in this survey with GPT-3.5, GPT-4, GPT-4o,
file retrieval, code modification, and review. Claude-3.5 Sonnet, respectively.
Autocoderover [325] further tackles GitHub †AutoCoderRover-v2 is ∗mentioned in Agentless[289],
                                                   with the given reference
issues by integrating structured code search
with spectrum-based fault localization (SBFL)                                 Defects4J(Top1)                SWE-bench-lite
to pinpoint buggy methods. It then iteratively Method              Model
                                                                                   [127]
                                                                                              SWE-bench[120]
                                                                                                                 [120]

retrieves context via API calls and refines the    -               GPT-3.5        121/395          0.84%           -
                                                   -               GPT-4             -             1.74%           -
issue description to synthesize a patch, demon- AgentFL[216]                      157/395             -            -
strating a robust solution in a practical setting. RepairAgent[23] GPT-3.5        90/440              -            -

Besides, Rondon et al. [223] explored the via- MAGIS[256]                            -            13.94%           -

bility of agent-based program repair in an en- AutoCodeRover[325] GPT-4              -            12.42%         19.0%

terprise environment, contributing a valuable SWE-Agent[300]                         -            12.74%         18.0%

                                                   Agentless[289]                    -                -           32%
dataset of both human and machine reported SWE-Agent[300] GPT-4o                     -                -         18.33%
bugs and offering insights into real-world ap- AutoCodeRover-v2                 †    -                -         30.67%

plicability.                                       OrcaLoca[308]
                                                                   Claude-3.5
                                                                    Sonnet
                                                                                     -                -         41.00%

                                                              ∗ https://www.autocoderover.net/




4.3.3 Full-cycle Development. Beyond discrete
tasks like generation and repair, agentic sys-
tems are increasingly engineered to automate the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC),
from initial requirements analysis to final testing and documentation. These systems often simulate
human software teams and adopt established development methodologies. Early explorations
constructed virtual teams composed of agents with distinct roles. Dong et al. [57] organize a
analyst, a coder, and a tester agents managed by a waterfall model, communicating via a shared
blackboard. Moreover, CHatdev [213] formalizes the process into design, coding, and testing phases,
enabling role-specific agents to collaborate through natural language. It introduces a chat chain for
task refinement and a communicative de-hallucination mechanism to ensure requirement clarity
before coding. A significant advancement came with MetaGPT [102], which mimics the Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs) of human software companies. By assigning roles and enforcing
structured workflows, MetaGPT facilitates hierarchical multi-agent collaboration across the full
development pipeline, from requirements analysis to system design and testing, ensuring accurate
information flow and reducing communication overhead.
   Furthermore, RepoAgent [179] specializes in automated code documentation. It analyzes project-
level hierarchy and code dependencies to enrich LLM prompts and integrates with Git to maintain
consistency between code and documentation in real-time. Similarly, DocAgent [297] employs
a multi-agent team – comprising a reader, searcher, writer, validator, and coordinator, and uses
topological code processing to automate the generation of comprehensive software documentation
.


                                                        J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:30                                                                                                Zhao et al.




Fig. 10. The fundamental paradigm for social simulation based on an Agentic Reasoning Framework. In this
framework, each Individual is powered by LLM-based Agent. a) Individual (purple at the middle): Each agent
possesses its unique initial profile, personal goal, available tools, and a dynamically updated personal context,
engaging in dynamic learning and decision-making based on continuous context updates. b) Individual
with Others (blue at the left): Individual continuously updates its cognition, goals, and context by observing
the behaviors of other individuals and reflecting on the Individual Events that arise from interactions. c)
Individual with Environments (green at the right): When individual executes an action in the Public
Action Space, it can trigger Public Events or leave messages in the Message Pool. Correspondingly, the
environment feeds these changes back to the agent via a Status Update, thus forming a complete interaction
loop that influences its subsequent decisions. In summary, through the dual loops of social and environmental
interaction, each agent maintains the independence of its context and goals, executes distinct asynchronous
social behaviors, and thereby contributes to the emergence of complex and realistic social dynamics at the
group level.


   A more fundamental innovation focus on how could agents interact with their developing
environment. SWE-Agent [300] pioneers an Agent-Computer Interface (ACI) that allows an agent
to perform operations directly on a code repository, such as creating and editing files, navigating
the filesystem, and executing test suites. Concurrently, Openhands [275] imitates human developer
interactions by providing agents with a sandboxed environment where they can write code, use a
command-line interface, browse the web, and coordinate complex tasks, granting them a higher
degree of autonomy. Besides, at the level of software system, MAAD [322] tackles the complex
process of software architecture design by creating a multi-agent system that learns from existing
design knowledge, academic literature, and expert experience to generate and optimize architectures.
Meanwhile SyncMind [91] identifies and addresses core challenges within these systems, such as
the “belief inconsistency” problem in collaborative software engineering, and proposes SyncBench
benchmarks to validate the solutions.

4.4      Social and Economic Simulation
Apart from previous setions, the advent and rapid advancement of Large Language Models have
also established a revolutionary paradigm for simulating social and economic behaviors. LLM-based
agents, endowed with sophisticated, human-like capacities for reasoning, perception, and action,
serve as the foundational elements of this new approach. Ranging from single-agent decision-
making models to complex multi-agent systems, these frameworks are designed to construct and
simulate critical socioeconomic dynamics at various scales. Consequently, they provide a powerful
and versatile methodology for researchers to explore complex phenomena within the social and
economic sciences.
4.4.1 Social Simulation. LLM-based social simulation leverages the autonomy of agents to model a
wide spectrum of emergent social behaviors. They could interact with different individuals which

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                         111:31


are also powered by LLMs, or dynamically act, learn and improve themselves from the simulated
environments, as demonstrated in Fig. 10, Early and influential research in this area often operates
within text-based sandbox environments, where agents are assigned specific profiles and action
spaces to drive interaction. One of the pioneer work is Generative Agents [208], which established
this paradigm by creating an interactive sandbox with 25 agents, each possessing the capacity to
observe, plan, and reflect, thus exhibiting distinct personalities. This setup allowed for the qualitative
assessment of individual and collective behaviors through natural language interaction. Following
this paradigms, subsequent studies have explored critical social dynamics. For instance, MetaAgents
[157] assessed coordination skills in a simulated job fair, while GOVSIM [211] investigated whether
agents could negotiate sustainable equilibria in a commons dilemma. Other research has used
similar frameworks to study the formation of information cocoons, conformity [267], and voting
behaviors in election scenarios [319].
   Moreover, the focus expanded from specific simulations to the development of generalizable plat-
forms and the modeling of online interactions. To enhance reusability and extensibility, frameworks
like GenSim [252] and Sotopia-S4 [338] were introduced. These platforms provide configurable
systems where researchers can define roles, contextual information, and action spaces to customize
diverse multi-agent scenarios and test hypotheses with tailored evaluation metrics. Besides, research
began to address the complexities of online social networks. BASES [221] modeled the emergent
web search behaviors of diverse user profiles, while Mou et al. [195] simulated the propagation of
influence in social movements by differentiating between core agent-driven users and peripheral
users. The challenge of simulating malicious online environments was tackled by BotSim [214],
which created a mixed network of agents and human users. Similarly, Y-Social [225] employed
digital twin technology to replicate the dynamics of user interactions on social media platforms.
   A primary challenge in social simulation is
achieving realism at a large scale, while Recent Table 8. A Collection of Different Social Simulating
systems have made solid progress in this direc- Methods.
tion. Oasis [303] implements large-scale user
simulation by integrating dynamic context up-           Simulation Focus      Data Source     Related Work
                                                                                                                 #Agent
                                                                                                                  / User
dates and an interest-based recommendation
                                                      Sustainable Cooperation  Simulated      GoverSim[211]           -
system modeled after real-world platforms. So-
                                                               Job Fair        Simulated    MetaAgents[157]           -
cioVerse [318] further enhances scalability by
                                                             Interactive
introducing and restructuring real-world infor-           Human Behavior
                                                                               Simulated  Generative Agents[208]     25

mation to create distinct contextual environ- Recommendation System Simulated                 RecAgent[267]          20
ments that drive divergent individual behaviors.              Malicious
                                                                               Simulated       BotSim[214]          ∼3k
                                                           Social Botnet
In addition, S3 [72] simplifies the simulation
                                                          Population-level
of large-scale social networks by employing                                    Simulated          S3[72]           ∼10k
                                                             Interaction
group agents. It follows a hierarchical archi-          Massive   Population
                                                                               Real-world   ElectionSim[319]        10k
                                                               Election
tecture where each group agent represents a                 Web Search
                                                                               Real-world      BASES[221]          200k
demographic population rather than a single in-           User Simulation

dividual. By assigning characteristics, emotions,           World Model        Real-world    SocialVerse[318]      10M

and attitudes based on role distributions, the             General Social
                                                                               Simulated
                                                                                             Sotopia-S4[338]        150
                                                        Simulation Platform                    GenSim[252]        ∼100k
system can simulate macro-level network in-
teractions, offering a computationally efficient                                               Y Social[225]          -
                                                            Social Media       Real-world     Mou et al.[195]        1k
abstraction for massive-scale social dynamics.                                                  OASIS[303]         100k
As a conclusion, Table.8 summarize these sim-
ulation work with their different simulation
focus, data source and scale.


                                                       J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:32                                                                                     Zhao et al.


4.4.2 Economic Perception and Simulation. Agentic frameworks are increasingly being leveraged
to perceive, analyze, and simulate complex economic markets, a domain with immense real-world
value [26]. The evolution of these frameworks can be understood through three advancing frontiers:
enhancing agent-native cognitive abilities, optimizing collaborative structures, and creating large-
scale market simulations.
   Initially, efforts focused on equipping individual agents with sophisticated cognitive modules.
Early work like Finmem [306] established a foundational agent system with analysis, memory,
and decision modules, where the memory component utilized reflection and interactive learning
to process historical context. Similarly, EconAgent [153] situated an LLM-based agent within a
simulated macroeconomic environment, employing perception, memory, and reflection modules to
analyze its behavior. This focus on reflection as a core cognitive faculty was further advanced by
subsequent systems. Finvision [67] places systematic reflection at its center, using a multi-agent
system to analyze historical trading signals and generate feedback to improve future decisions.
More recently, Zhang et al. [317] introduced a sophisticated two-level reflection module. This
module processes multimodal market information to establish distinct causal links between market
data and price movements, while also reflecting on historical trading performance. Its memory
system separately stores parsed market information and the insights from both levels of reflection
to inform decision-making.
   Building upon individual agent capabilities, another line of research explores the optimization
of collaborative structures. As a pioneer work, Fincon [307] addresses stock trading and portfolio
management using a hierarchical manager-analyst multi-agent system. This structure facilitates
synchronous collaboration and employs self-criticism to monitor market risks and update in-
vestment theses, thereby achieving robust risk control. Notably, conceptualized beliefs are only
selectively communicated among agents, effectively reducing the communication overhead typical
in multi-agent systems. The importance of structured collaboration is also highlighted in Tradin-
gAgents [290], which enhance automated trading performance through explicit role and objective
allocation combined with streamlined information integration.
   The most ambitious application in this domain involves creating comprehensive, closed-loop
platforms and simulating entire economic environments. FinRobot [299] implements a full-cycle
financial analysis platform. At its agent layer, it uses CoT [282] to deconstruct complex financial
problems, dynamically selecting or fine-tuning different LLMs and applying varied algorithms
based on the task, thus enabling rapid market response. Pushing the boundaries further, large-scale
simulations now aim to replicate real-world market dynamics. StockAgent [312] deploys a massive
multi-agent system to simulate a stock trading environment, allowing users to assess how external
factors influence investor behavior and profitability. Similarly, Gao et al. [74] simulates the stock
market by creating agents equipped with unique profiles, observational capabilities, and tool-based
learning. By integrating these agents with a realistic order-matching system, these frameworks
achieve a high-fidelity simulation of actual stock market operations, opening new avenues for
economic research and policy testing.

4.5      Others
Beyond the applications in mainstream scenarios, Agentic Reasoning Frameworks also demonstrate
distinct potential in several other significant domains. Although agent-based approaches have not
yet become mainstream in these fields, a growing body of pioneering work has begun to explore
the frontiers of their capabilities in complex tasks like Embodied Interaction, GUI Operation, and
Strategic Reasoning.
   In Embodied Interaction, an agent’s reasoning process typically follows a perceive-plan-execute-
memory cycle. The primary goal in this field is to empower agents to learn and complete tasks

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                    111:33


autonomously through continuous interaction with a virtual or physical environment [175]. For
example, based on training-free framework, Voyager [277] enables an agent to achieve lifelong
learning in the game Minecraft by designing a specialized action space and a reasoning framework
that integrates iterative feedback and continuous evolution. However, existing general foundational
Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) still show deficiencies in handling complex, multi-
level task planning. Consequently, a prevailing research direction is to fine-tune base models for
specific embodied scenarios to enhance the agent’s perception and planning capabilities in a tailored
manner [175].
   GUI (Graphical User Interface) Operation aims to enable agents to operate applications on phones,
computers, and the web with human-like proficiency [332]. Researchers usually build the frame-
work base on state-of-the-art vision-language models like GPT-4V [295]. They enhance reasoning
frameworks by integrating visual memory and knowledge bases and introducing multi-agent
collaboration mechanisms [146, 263, 280, 313]. These are combined with conventional components
like reflection and context updating to effectively decompose complex GUI navigation tasks and
enable continuous learning. However, as task complexity increases, the research focus is shifting
from relying on the zero-shot capabilities of models towards more intensive, specialized training
via Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) or Reinforcement Learning (RL) [271].
   Strategic Reasoning requires an agent to understand and predict the behavior of opponents and
dynamically adapt its own strategy, with the core challenge being the management of dynamics and
uncertainty in multi-agent interactions. Currently, the research focus in this area is not on designing
novel reasoning frameworks but rather on creating diverse test environments to accurately evaluate
and enhance the strategic capabilities of LLMs [324]. These environments span a wide range, as
evidenced by the development of benchmarks based on real-time strategy (RTS) games like StarCraft
II [182]; the use of LLMs to generate expert-level decision explanations for board games [131]; and
the systematic analysis of their behavioral rationality through classic game theory models [63].

5     Future Prospects
As discussed in previous chapters, agentic reasoning frameworks have made significant progress
in both theory and application. However, the path to achieving a truly general, trustworthy, and
efficient agent system is still full of challenges. In this chapter, we propose six potential directions
for future development.

5.1    Scalability and Efficiency of Reasoning
As task complexity increases, the scalability and efficiency of agent frameworks have become
major bottlenecks for large-scale applications. For instance, in multi-agent systems, poor task
decomposition can cause system performance to degrade sharply as the system scales up [28]. Simply
increasing the number of agents or extending reasoning time is often unsustainable, leading to
spiraling costs and diminishing returns. Future works could focus on innovations at the framework
level. On one hand, it will be crucial to design more efficient context management mechanisms
for large-scale expansion. On the other hand, frameworks should also be equipped with dynamic
task allocation and adaptive resource scheduling capabilities to handle complex tasks flexibly and
efficiently.

5.2 Open-ended Autonomous Learning
Achieving open-ended autonomous learning is a key vision in agent research. The goal is to evolve
agents from being mere “users” of existing knowledge into “creators” of new knowledge and tools
[73], breaking free from reliance on specific environments like games [277]. We have observed
that current reasoning frameworks typically rely on static toolsets, fixed interaction logic, and

                                                  J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:34                                                                                     Zhao et al.


pre-defined prompts. This rigidity constrains an agent’s creativity, potentially leading to poor
performance on complex, zero-shot problems. Therefore, future framework design should focus on
equipping agents with the ability to dynamically generate and optimize tools. This would allow
them to autonomously create and iterate on their own methods during the reasoning process [68].
Alongside this, there is also a need to establish an effective and reasonable evaluation system to
assess an agent’s capacity for learning and creation in an open-ended world.

5.3      Dynamic Reasoning Framework
Improving a framework’s ability to adapt to complex tasks is crucial for the evolution of agents.
Currently, this adaptability mainly involves making high-level adjustments for different types
of tasks by setting up different collaboration architectures [134]. However, within the multi-step
reasoning process of a single complex task, the collaboration pattern inside the framework often
remains static. Future research should focus on a framework’s ability to self-regulate during the
reasoning process for a single task. This requires the framework to have a deep understanding of
its own reasoning process, enabling it to perceive the goal of the current step and dynamically
reconfigure the interaction topology and collaboration protocols between agents. The framework
should then be able to select and execute the optimal reasoning path to achieve the best balance
between resource efficiency and reasoning quality.

5.4      Ethics and Fairness in Reasoning
Building trustworthy and responsible agent systems is an essential prerequisite for their deployment
in the real world. As these systems become more autonomous and complex, individual biases may
be amplified [262], and it will become increasingly difficult to hold them accountable and correct
flawed reasoning [196]. Future research should focus on enhancing the framework’s ability to
proactively manage bias. This means equipping it to anticipate, identify, and mitigate potential
biases during the reasoning process itself. Additionally, the framework should be able to provide
clear ethical justifications for every key decision, establishing a reliable pathway for external
auditing and accountability.

5.5      Reliance and Safety in Reasoning
The safety challenges for agent frameworks have evolved from securing a single language model to
protecting a complex, dynamic system composed of memory, planning, and tool interfaces. This shift
introduces new risks: beyond traditional attacks on LLMs, every core module and external interface
of an agent can become a new target. Attackers can exploit these entry points by poisoning API data
to manipulate an agent’s “perception” or by hijacking its reasoning chain to control its “decisions”,
leading to data leaks and more severe illicit operations [264]. Future work should approach the agent
system as a whole at the framework level. By implementing dynamic, coordinated defenses between
components, the system can quickly respond to and patch vulnerabilities, thereby enhancing its
reliability and security.

5.6      Confidence Estimation and Explainable Agentic Reasoning
When an agent system becomes an automated decision-maker, it needs a precise way to evaluate and
communicate the trustworthiness of its reasoning process. Future work should focus on establishing
quantifiable mechanisms for uncertainty-aware confidence estimation. For instance, introspective
reasoning could be conducted within an agentic framework to align internal uncertainty with
inherent task ambiguity [94, 161]. When faced with high uncertainty, an agent could actively seek
information to clarify ambiguity [107]. Furthermore, calibrating the agent’s confidence during tool
invocation is also crucial, since interactions with external environments and tools are major sources

J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                             111:35


of uncertainty for agentic frameworks [168]. This would transform confidence evaluation from an
agent’s unreliable self-declaration into a credible, objective proof, ensuring its safe deployment in
critical fields.

6   Conclusion
With the explosive growth of large language model (LLM) based agentic reasoning methods and
applications, a systematic understanding of these approaches and their scenarios has become crucial.
We propose a unified taxonomy that breaks down agentic systems into three progressive levels,
from single-agent methods, tool-based methods, to multi-agent systems. This framework offers
a clear views through which to analyze the field. Building on this, we systematically reviewed
how these frameworks are put into practice across major application domains, covering their core
methodologies, key focuses, and evaluation approaches. Finally, we present our insights on the
future directions of agentic reasoning, aiming to promote the development of agentic frameworks
for the future generation.

References
  [1] Josh Abramson, Jonas Adler, Jack Dunger, Richard Evans, Tim Green, Alexander Pritzel, Olaf Ronneberger, Lindsay
      Willmore, Andrew J Ballard, Joshua Bambrick, et al. 2024. Accurate structure prediction of biomolecular interactions
      with AlphaFold 3. Nature 630, 8016 (2024), 493–500.
  [2] Vaibhav Adlakha, Parishad BehnamGhader, Xing Han Lu, Nicholas Meade, and Siva Reddy. 2024. Evaluating
      correctness and faithfulness of instruction-following models for question answering. Transactions of the Association
      for Computational Linguistics 12 (2024), 681–699.
  [3] Ali AhmadiTeshnizi, Wenzhi Gao, and Madeleine Udell. 2024. OptiMUS: scalable optimization modeling with (MI) LP
      solvers and large language models. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning. 577–596.
  [4] Zaid Al-Ars, Obinna Agba, Zhuoran Guo, Christiaan Boerkamp, Ziyaad Jaber, and Tareq Jaber. 2023. Nlice: Synthetic
      medical record generation for effective primary healthcare differential diagnosis. In 2023 IEEE 23rd International
      Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering (BIBE). IEEE, 397–402.
  [5] Mohammad Almansoori, Komal Kumar, and Hisham Cholakkal. 2025. Self-Evolving Multi-Agent Simulations for
      Realistic Clinical Interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22678 (2025).
  [6] Amr Almorsi, Mohanned Ahmed, and Walid Gomaa. 2024. Guided code generation with llms: A multi-agent
      framework for complex code tasks. In 2024 12th International Japan-Africa Conference on Electronics, Communications,
      and Computations (JAC-ECC). IEEE, 215–218.
  [7] Vinicius M Alves, Eugene Muratov, Denis Fourches, Judy Strickland, Nicole Kleinstreuer, Carolina H Andrade, and
      Alexander Tropsha. 2015. Predicting chemically-induced skin reactions. Part I: QSAR models of skin sensitization and
      their application to identify potentially hazardous compounds. Toxicology and applied pharmacology 284, 2 (2015),
      262–272.
  [8] Theonie Anastassiadis, Sean W Deacon, Karthik Devarajan, Haiching Ma, and Jeffrey R Peterson. 2011. Comprehensive
      assay of kinase catalytic activity reveals features of kinase inhibitor selectivity. Nature biotechnology 29, 11 (2011),
      1039–1045.
  [9] D Armstrong. 2024. Exercises from “introduction to Computational Chemistry”(CHM 323), University of toronto.
      Personal communication (2024).
 [10] Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie
      Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. 2021. Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732
      (2021).
 [11] Reza Averly, Frazier N Baker, and Xia Ning. 2025. Liddia: Language-based intelligent drug discovery agent. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2502.13959 (2025).
 [12] Kaito Baba, Chaoran Liu, Shuhei Kurita, and Akiyoshi Sannai. 2025. Prover Agent: An Agent-based Framework for
      Formal Mathematical Proofs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.19923 (2025).
 [13] Seongsu Bae, Daeun Kyung, Jaehee Ryu, Eunbyeol Cho, Gyubok Lee, Sunjun Kweon, Jungwoo Oh, Lei Ji, Eric Chang,
      Tackeun Kim, et al. 2023. Ehrxqa: A multi-modal question answering dataset for electronic health records with chest
      x-ray images. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 3867–3880.
 [14] Jinheon Baek, Sujay Kumar Jauhar, Silviu Cucerzan, and Sung Ju Hwang. 2025. ResearchAgent: Iterative Research
      Idea Generation over Scientific Literature with Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of
      the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies


                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:36                                                                                                        Zhao et al.


      (Volume 1: Long Papers). 6709–6738.
 [15] Kinjal Basu, Ibrahim Abdelaziz, Kiran Kate, Mayank Agarwal, Maxwell Crouse, Yara Rizk, Kelsey Bradford, Asim
      Munawar, Sadhana Kumaravel, Saurabh Goyal, et al. 2024. Nestful: A benchmark for evaluating llms on nested
      sequences of api calls. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.03797 (2024).
 [16] Suhana Bedi, Iddah Mlauzi, Daniel Shin, Sanmi Koyejo, and Nigam H Shah. 2025. The Optimization Paradox in
      Clinical AI Multi-Agent Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.06574 (2025).
 [17] RM Belbin and V Brown. 2012. Team roles at work. Routledge (2012).
 [18] Peter Belcak, Greg Heinrich, Shizhe Diao, Yonggan Fu, Xin Dong, Saurav Muralidharan, Yingyan Celine Lin, and
      Pavlo Molchanov. 2025. Small Language Models are the Future of Agentic AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.02153 (2025).
 [19] A Patrícia Bento, Anna Gaulton, Anne Hersey, Louisa J Bellis, Jon Chambers, Mark Davies, Felix A Krüger, Yvonne
      Light, Lora Mak, Shaun McGlinchey, et al. 2014. The ChEMBL bioactivity database: an update. Nucleic acids research
      42, D1 (2014), D1083–D1090.
 [20] Helen M Berman, John Westbrook, Zukang Feng, Gary Gilliland, Talapady N Bhat, Helge Weissig, Ilya N Shindyalov,
      and Philip E Bourne. 2000. The protein data bank. Nucleic acids research 28, 1 (2000), 235–242.
 [21] G Richard Bickerton, Gaia V Paolini, Jérémy Besnard, Sorel Muresan, and Andrew L Hopkins. 2012. Quantifying the
      chemical beauty of drugs. Nature chemistry 4, 2 (2012), 90–98.
 [22] Lisa Bortolotti. 2011. Does reflection lead to wise choices? Philosophical Explorations 14, 3 (2011), 297–313.
 [23] Islem Bouzenia, Premkumar Devanbu, and Michael Pradel. 2025. RepairAgent: An Autonomous, LLM-Based Agent
      for Program Repair. In 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE Computer
      Society, 694–694.
 [24] Andres M Bran, Sam Cox, Oliver Schilter, Carlo Baldassari, Andrew D White, and Philippe Schwaller. 2023. Chemcrow:
      Augmenting large-language models with chemistry tools. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.05376 (2023).
 [25] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan,
      Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural
      information processing systems 33 (2020), 1877–1901.
 [26] Bokai Cao, Saizhuo Wang, Xinyi Lin, Xiaojun Wu, Haohan Zhang, Lionel M Ni, and Jian Guo. 2025. From deep
      learning to LLMs: a survey of AI in quantitative investment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21422 (2025).
 [27] Julia Carnevale, Eric Shifrut, Nupura Kale, William A Nyberg, Franziska Blaeschke, Yan Yi Chen, Zhongmei Li, Sagar P
      Bapat, Morgan E Diolaiti, Patrick O’Leary, et al. 2022. RASA2 ablation in T cells boosts antigen sensitivity and
      long-term function. Nature 609, 7925 (2022), 174–182.
 [28] Mert Cemri, Melissa Z Pan, Shuyi Yang, Lakshya A Agrawal, Bhavya Chopra, Rishabh Tiwari, Kurt Keutzer, Aditya
      Parameswaran, Dan Klein, Kannan Ramchandran, et al. 2025. Why do multi-agent llm systems fail? arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2503.13657 (2025).
 [29] Jingyi Chai, Shuo Tang, Rui Ye, Yuwen Du, Xinyu Zhu, Mengcheng Zhou, Yanfeng Wang, Siheng Chen, et al. 2025.
      SciMaster: Towards General-Purpose Scientific AI Agents, Part I. X-Master as Foundation: Can We Lead on Humanity’s
      Last Exam? arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.05241 (2025).
 [30] Jiajun Chai, Zijie Zhao, Yuanheng Zhu, and Dongbin Zhao. 2025. A Survey of Cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement
      Learning for Multi-Task Scenarios. Artificial Intelligence Science and Engineering 1, 2 (2025), 98–121.
 [31] Chi-Min Chan, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jianxuan Yu, Wei Xue, Shanghang Zhang, Jie Fu, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2024.
      ChatEval: Towards Better LLM-based Evaluators through Multi-Agent Debate. In The Twelfth International Conference
      on Learning Representations.
 [32] Jun Shern Chan, Neil Chowdhury, Oliver Jaffe, James Aung, Dane Sherburn, Evan Mays, Giulio Starace, Kevin Liu,
      Leon Maksin, Tejal Patwardhan, et al. 2025. MLE-bench: Evaluating Machine Learning Agents on Machine Learning
      Engineering. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations.
 [33] Crystal T Chang, Hodan Farah, Haiwen Gui, Shawheen Justin Rezaei, Charbel Bou-Khalil, Ye-Jean Park, Akshay
      Swaminathan, Jesutofunmi A Omiye, Akaash Kolluri, Akash Chaurasia, et al. 2024. Red teaming large language
      models in medicine: real-world insights on model behavior. medRxiv (2024), 2024–04.
 [34] Guangyao Chen, Siwei Dong, Yu Shu, Ge Zhang, Jaward Sesay, Börje Karlsson, Jie Fu, and Yemin Shi. 2024. AutoAgents:
      a framework for automatic agent generation. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Third International Joint Conference on
      Artificial Intelligence. 22–30.
 [35] Hanjie Chen, Zhouxiang Fang, Yash Singla, and Mark Dredze. 2025. Benchmarking large language models on
      answering and explaining challenging medical questions. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the
      Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long
      Papers). 3563–3599.
 [36] Kexin Chen, Junyou Li, Kunyi Wang, Yuyang Du, Jiahui Yu, Jiamin Lu, Lanqing Li, Jiezhong Qiu, Jianzhang Pan, Yi
      Huang, et al. 2023. Chemist-X: Large language model-empowered agent for reaction condition recommendation in
      chemical synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10776 (2023).


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                          111:37


 [37] Kai Chen, Xinfeng Li, Tianpei Yang, Hewei Wang, Wei Dong, and Yang Gao. 2025. MDTeamGPT: A Self-Evolving LLM-
      based Multi-Agent Framework for Multi-Disciplinary Team Medical Consultation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.13856
      (2025).
 [38] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards,
      Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large language models trained on code. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2107.03374 (2021).
 [39] Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chi-Min Chan, Heyang Yu, Yaxi Lu, Yi-Hsin Hung,
      Chen Qian, et al. 2024. AgentVerse: Facilitating Multi-Agent Collaboration and Exploring Emergent Behaviors. In
      ICLR.
 [40] Weize Chen, Ziming You, Ran Li, Chen Qian, Chenyang Zhao, Cheng Yang, Ruobing Xie, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong
      Sun, et al. 2025. Internet of Agents: Weaving a Web of Heterogeneous Agents for Collaborative Intelligence. In The
      Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations.
 [41] Xuanzhong Chen, Ye Jin, Xiaohao Mao, Lun Wang, Shuyang Zhang, and Ting Chen. 2024. RareAgents: Autonomous
      Multi-disciplinary Team for Rare Disease Diagnosis and Treatment. arXiv e-prints (2024), arXiv–2412.
 [42] Xinyun Chen, Maxwell Lin, Nathanael Schärli, and Denny Zhou. 2024. Teaching Large Language Models to Self-Debug.
      In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations.
 [43] Xuanzhong Chen, Xiaohao Mao, Qihan Guo, Lun Wang, Shuyang Zhang, and Ting Chen. 2024. RareBench: can LLMs
      serve as rare diseases specialists?. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD conference on knowledge discovery and data
      mining. 4850–4861.
 [44] Xi Chen, Huahui Yi, Mingke You, WeiZhi Liu, Li Wang, Hairui Li, Xue Zhang, Yingman Guo, Lei Fan, Gang Chen,
      et al. 2025. Enhancing diagnostic capability with multi-agents conversational large language models. NPJ digital
      medicine 8, 1 (2025), 159.
 [45] Yuxuan Chen, Xu Zhu, Hua Zhou, and Zhuyin Ren. 2024. MetaOpenFOAM: an LLM-based multi-agent framework
      for CFD. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21320 (2024).
 [46] Yuxuan Chen, Xu Zhu, Hua Zhou, and Zhuyin Ren. 2025. Metaopenfoam 2.0: Large language model driven chain of
      thought for automating cfd simulation and post-processing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.00498 (2025).
 [47] Zehui Chen, Kuikun Liu, Qiuchen Wang, Jiangning Liu, Wenwei Zhang, Kai Chen, and Feng Zhao. 2025. Mind-
      Search: Mimicking Human Minds Elicits Deep AI Searcher. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning
      Representations.
 [48] Zhaoling Chen, Xiangru Tang, Gangda Deng, Fang Wu, Jialong Wu, Zhiwei Jiang, Viktor Prasanna, Arman Cohan,
      and Xingyao Wang. 2025. Locagent: Graph-guided llm agents for code localization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09089
      (2025).
 [49] Yuan Chiang, Elvis Hsieh, Chia-Hong Chou, and Janosh Riebesell. 2025. LLaMP: Large Language Model Made
      Powerful for High-fidelity Materials Knowledge Retrieval. In AI for Accelerated Materials Design-ICLR.
 [50] Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias Plappert, Jerry
      Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, et al. 2021. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2110.14168 (2021).
 [51] 1000 Genomes Project Consortium et al. 2012. An integrated map of genetic variation from 1,092 human genomes.
      Nature 491, 7422 (2012), 56.
 [52] Steven M Corsello, Joshua A Bittker, Zihan Liu, Joshua Gould, Patrick McCarren, Jodi E Hirschman, Stephen E
      Johnston, Anita Vrcic, Bang Wong, Mariya Khan, et al. 2017. The Drug Repurposing Hub: a next-generation drug
      library and information resource. Nature medicine 23, 4 (2017), 405–408.
 [53] Debrup Das, Debopriyo Banerjee, Somak Aditya, and Ashish Kulkarni. 2024. MATHSENSEI: A Tool-Augmented Large
      Language Model for Mathematical Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of
      the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers). 942–966.
 [54] Tom DeMarco and Tim Lister. 2013. Peopleware: productive projects and teams. Addison-Wesley.
 [55] Han Ding, Yinheng Li, Junhao Wang, and Hang Chen. 2024. Large language model agent in financial trading: A
      survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06361 (2024).
 [56] Yihong Dong, Jiazheng Ding, Xue Jiang, Ge Li, Zhuo Li, and Zhi Jin. 2025. Codescore: Evaluating code generation by
      learning code execution. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 34, 3 (2025), 1–22.
 [57] Yihong Dong, Xue Jiang, Zhi Jin, and Ge Li. 2024. Self-collaboration code generation via chatgpt. ACM Transactions
      on Software Engineering and Methodology 33, 7 (2024), 1–38.
 [58] Mengge Du, Yuntian Chen, Zhongzheng Wang, Longfeng Nie, and Dongxiao Zhang. 2024. LLM4ED: Large Language
      Models for Automatic Equation Discovery. CoRR (2024).
 [59] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. 2024. Improving factuality and
      reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on
      Machine Learning. 11733–11763.


                                                        J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:38                                                                                                          Zhao et al.


 [60] Zane Durante, Qiuyuan Huang, Naoki Wake, Ran Gong, Jae Sung Park, Bidipta Sarkar, Rohan Taori, Yusuke Noda,
      Demetri Terzopoulos, Yejin Choi, et al. 2024. Agent ai: Surveying the horizons of multimodal interaction. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2401.03568 (2024).
 [61] Abul Ehtesham, Aditi Singh, Gaurav Kumar Gupta, and Saket Kumar. 2025. A survey of agent interoperability
      protocols: Model context protocol (mcp), agent communication protocol (acp), agent-to-agent protocol (a2a), and
      agent network protocol (anp). arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.02279 (2025).
 [62] Peter Ertl and Ansgar Schuffenhauer. 2009. Estimation of synthetic accessibility score of drug-like molecules based
      on molecular complexity and fragment contributions. Journal of cheminformatics 1, 1 (2009), 8.
 [63] Caoyun Fan, Jindou Chen, Yaohui Jin, and Hao He. 2024. Can large language models serve as rational players in game
      theory? a systematic analysis. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38. 17960–17967.
 [64] Zhihao Fan, Lai Wei, Jialong Tang, Wei Chen, Wang Siyuan, Zhongyu Wei, and Fei Huang. 2025. AI Hospital:
      Benchmarking Large Language Models in a Multi-agent Medical Interaction Simulator. In Proceedings of the 31st
      International Conference on Computational Linguistics. 10183–10213.
 [65] Huihui Fang, Fei Li, Junde Wu, Huazhu Fu, Xu Sun, Jaemin Son, Shuang Yu, Menglu Zhang, Chenglang Yuan, Cheng
      Bian, et al. 2022. Refuge2 challenge: A treasure trove for multi-dimension analysis and evaluation in glaucoma
      screening. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.08994 (2022).
 [66] Arsene Fansi Tchango, Rishab Goel, Zhi Wen, Julien Martel, and Joumana Ghosn. 2022. Ddxplus: A new dataset for
      automatic medical diagnosis. Advances in neural information processing systems 35 (2022), 31306–31318.
 [67] Sorouralsadat Fatemi and Yuheng Hu. 2024. FinVision: A multi-agent framework for stock market prediction. In
      Proceedings of the 5th ACM International Conference on AI in Finance. 582–590.
 [68] Xiang Fei, Xiawu Zheng, and Hao Feng. 2025. MCP-Zero: Proactive Toolchain Construction for LLM Agents from
      Scratch. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01056 (2025).
 [69] Helen V Firth, Shola M Richards, A Paul Bevan, Stephen Clayton, Manuel Corpas, Diana Rajan, Steven Van Vooren,
      Yves Moreau, Roger M Pettett, and Nigel P Carter. 2009. DECIPHER: database of chromosomal imbalance and
      phenotype in humans using ensembl resources. The American Journal of Human Genetics 84, 4 (2009), 524–533.
 [70] Paul G Francoeur, Tomohide Masuda, Jocelyn Sunseri, Andrew Jia, Richard B Iovanisci, Ian Snyder, and David R Koes.
      2020. Three-dimensional convolutional neural networks and a cross-docked data set for structure-based drug design.
      Journal of chemical information and modeling 60, 9 (2020), 4200–4215.
 [71] Bowen Gao, Yanwen Huang, Yiqiao Liu, Wenxuan Xie, Wei-Ying Ma, Ya-Qin Zhang, and Yanyan Lan. 2025. Pharma-
      gents: Building a virtual pharma with large language model agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22164 (2025).
 [72] Chen Gao, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu, Jinzhu Mao, Jinghua Piao, Huandong Wang, Depeng Jin, and Yong Li. 2023.
      S3: Social-network Simulation System with Large Language Model-Empowered Agents. CoRR (2023).
 [73] Huan-ang Gao, Jiayi Geng, Wenyue Hua, Mengkang Hu, Xinzhe Juan, Hongzhang Liu, Shilong Liu, Jiahao Qiu, Xuan
      Qi, Yiran Wu, et al. 2025. A survey of self-evolving agents: On path to artificial super intelligence. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2507.21046 (2025).
 [74] Shen Gao, Yuntao Wen, Minghang Zhu, Jianing Wei, Yuhan Cheng, Qunzi Zhang, and Shuo Shang. 2024. Simulating
      financial market via large language model based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.19966 (2024).
 [75] Shanghua Gao, Richard Zhu, Zhenglun Kong, Ayush Noori, Xiao-Rui Su, Curtis Ginder, Theodoros Tsiligkaridis, and
      Marinka Zitnik. 2025. TxAgent: An AI Agent for Therapeutic Reasoning Across a Universe of Tools. CoRR (2025).
 [76] Tianyu Gao, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and Danqi Chen. 2023. Enabling Large Language Models to Generate Text with
      Citations. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 6465–6488.
 [77] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yixin Dai, Jiawei Sun, Haofen Wang, and Haofen
      Wang. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 2,
      1 (2023).
 [78] Alireza Ghafarollahi and Markus Buehler. 2024. ProtAgents: Protein discovery via large language model multi-agent
      collaborations combining physics and machine learning. In ICLR Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents.
 [79] Alireza Ghafarollahi and Markus J Buehler. 2025. Automating alloy design and discovery with physics-aware
      multimodal multiagent AI. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 122, 4 (2025), e2414074122.
 [80] Alireza Ghafarollahi and Markus J Buehler. 2025. SciAgents: automating scientific discovery through bioinspired
      multi-agent intelligent graph reasoning. Advanced Materials 37, 22 (2025), 2413523.
 [81] Ali Essam Ghareeb, Benjamin Chang, Ludovico Mitchener, Angela Yiu, Caralyn J Szostkiewicz, Jon M Laurent,
      Muhammed T Razzak, Andrew D White, Michaela M Hinks, and Samuel G Rodriques. 2025. Robin: A multi-agent
      system for automating scientific discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.13400 (2025).
 [82] Majid Ghasemi, Amir Hossein Moosavi, and Dariush Ebrahimi. 2024. A comprehensive survey of reinforcement
      learning: From algorithms to practical challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.18892 (2024).
 [83] Juraj Gottweis, Wei-Hung Weng, Alexander Daryin, Tao Tu, Anil Palepu, Petar Sirkovic, Artiom Myaskovsky, Felix
      Weissenberger, Keran Rong, Ryutaro Tanno, et al. 2025. Towards an AI co-scientist. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18864


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                            111:39


      (2025).
 [84] Zhiming Gou, Zili Li, Zili Wang, Ming Li, Zhen Wang, and Enhong Chen. 2024. OLVERA: A Framework for Open-
      ended Code Snippet Verification and Rectification using LLMs. In International Conference on Learning Representations
      (ICLR).
 [85] Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yujiu Yang, Nan Duan, Weizhu Chen, et al. 2024. CRITIC: Large Language
      Models Can Self-Correct with Tool-Interactive Critiquing. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
      Representations.
 [86] Mourad Gridach, Jay Nanavati, Khaldoun Zine El Abidine, Lenon Mendes, and Christina Mack. 2025. Agentic ai for
      scientific discovery: A survey of progress, challenges, and future directions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.08979 (2025).
 [87] Sven Gronauer and Klaus Diepold. 2022. Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning: a survey. Artificial Intelligence
      Review 55, 2 (2022), 895–943.
 [88] Yu Gu, Yiheng Shu, Hao Yu, Xiao Liu, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang, Jayanth Srinivasa, Hugo Latapie, and Yu Su. 2024.
      Middleware for LLMs: Tools Are Instrumental for Language Agents in Complex Environments. In Proceedings of the
      2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 7646–7663.
 [89] T Guo, X Chen, Y Wang, R Chang, S Pei, NV Chawla, O Wiest, and X Zhang. 2024. Large Language Model based
      Multi-Agents: A Survey of Progress and Challenges.. In 33rd International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence
      (IJCAI 2024). IJCAI; Cornell arxiv.
 [90] Taicheng Guo, Bozhao Nan, Zhenwen Liang, Zhichun Guo, Nitesh Chawla, Olaf Wiest, Xiangliang Zhang, et al. 2023.
      What can large language models do in chemistry? a comprehensive benchmark on eight tasks. Advances in Neural
      Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 59662–59688.
 [91] Xuehang Guo, Xingyao Wang, Yangyi Chen, Sha Li, Chi Han, Manling Li, and Heng Ji. 2025. SyncMind: Measuring
      Agent Out-of-Sync Recovery in Collaborative Software Engineering. In Forty-second International Conference on
      Machine Learning.
 [92] Zikang Guo, Benfeng Xu, Xiaorui Wang, and Zhendong Mao. 2025. MIRROR: Multi-agent Intra-and Inter-Reflection
      for Optimized Reasoning in Tool Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.20670 (2025).
 [93] Deepak Gupta, Kush Attal, and Dina Demner-Fushman. 2023. A dataset for medical instructional video classification
      and question answering. Scientific Data 10, 1 (2023), 158.
 [94] Jiuzhou Han, Wray Buntine, and Ehsan Shareghi. 2024. Towards Uncertainty-Aware Language Agent. In Findings of
      the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024. 6662–6685.
 [95] Tessa Han, Aounon Kumar, Chirag Agarwal, and Himabindu Lakkaraju. 2024. Medsafetybench: Evaluating and
      improving the medical safety of large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024),
      33423–33454.
 [96] Xuehai He, Yichen Zhang, Luntian Mou, Eric Xing, and Pengtao Xie. 2020. Pathvqa: 30000+ questions for medical
      visual question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10286 (2020).
 [97] Xinyi He, Jiaru Zou, Yun Lin, Mengyu Zhou, Shi Han, Zejian Yuan, and Dongmei Zhang. 2024. CoCoST: Automatic
      Complex Code Generation with Online Searching and Correctness Testing. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on
      Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 19433–19451.
 [98] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob Steinhardt. 2021.
      Measuring Massive Multitask Language Understanding. In International Conference on Learning Representations.
 [99] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song, and Jacob
      Steinhardt. 2021. Measuring Mathematical Problem Solving With the MATH Dataset. In Thirty-fifth Conference on
      Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Round 2).
[100] Daniel Scott Himmelstein, Antoine Lizee, Christine Hessler, Leo Brueggeman, Sabrina L Chen, Dexter Hadley, Ari
      Green, Pouya Khankhanian, and Sergio E Baranzini. 2017. Systematic integration of biomedical knowledge prioritizes
      drugs for repurposing. elife 6 (2017), e26726.
[101] Sebastian Hofstätter, Jiecao Chen, Karthik Raman, and Hamed Zamani. 2023. Fid-light: Efficient and effective retrieval-
      augmented text generation. In Proceedings of the 46th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development
      in Information Retrieval. 1437–1447.
[102] Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang,
      Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, et al. 2024. MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework.
      In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations.
[103] SU Hongjin, Ruoxi Sun, Jinsung Yoon, Pengcheng Yin, Tao Yu, and Sercan O Arik. 2025. Learn-by-interact: A Data-
      Centric Framework For Self-Adaptive Agents in Realistic Environments. In The Thirteenth International Conference on
      Learning Representations.
[104] Max A Horlbeck, Albert Xu, Min Wang, Neal K Bennett, Chong Y Park, Derek Bogdanoff, Britt Adamson, Eric D
      Chow, Martin Kampmann, Tim R Peterson, et al. 2018. Mapping the genetic landscape of human cells. Cell 174, 4
      (2018), 953–967.


                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:40                                                                                                           Zhao et al.


[105] Xinyi Hou, Yanjie Zhao, Shenao Wang, and Haoyu Wang. 2025. Model context protocol (mcp): Landscape, security
      threats, and future research directions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23278 (2025).
[106] Brian Hu, Bill Ray, Alice Leung, Amy Summerville, David Joy, Christopher Funk, and Arslan Basharat. 2024. Language
      Models are Alignable Decision-Makers: Dataset and Application to the Medical Triage Domain. In Proceedings of the
      2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
      Technologies (Volume 6: Industry Track). 213–227.
[107] Zhiyuan Hu, Chumin Liu, Xidong Feng, Yilun Zhao, See-Kiong Ng, Anh Tuan Luu, Junxian He, Pang Wei Koh, and
      Bryan Hooi. 2024. Uncertainty of Thoughts: Uncertainty-Aware Planning Enhances Information Seeking in Large
      Language Models. In ICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language Model (LLM) Agents.
[108] Chenghua Huang, Shisong Chen, Zhixu Li, Jianfeng Qu, Yanghua Xiao, Jiaxin Liu, and Zhigang Chen. 2024. Geoagent:
      To empower llms using geospatial tools for address standardization. In Findings of the Association for Computational
      Linguistics ACL 2024. 6048–6063.
[109] Daoyi Huang, Jianping Jiang, Tingting Zhao, Shengnan Wu, Pin Li, Yongfen Lyu, Jincai Feng, Mingyue Wei, Zhixing
      Zhu, Jianlei Gu, et al. 2023. diseaseGPS: auxiliary diagnostic system for genetic disorders based on genotype and
      phenotype. Bioinformatics 39, 9 (2023), btad517.
[110] Dong Huang, Jie M Zhang, Michael Luck, Qingwen Bu, Yuhao Qing, and Heming Cui. 2023. Agentcoder: Multi-agent-
      based code generation with iterative testing and optimisation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.13010 (2023).
[111] Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong Chen, Weihua Peng,
      Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, et al. 2025. A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy,
      challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information Systems 43, 2 (2025), 1–55.
[112] Xu Huang, Weiwen Liu, Xiaolong Chen, Xingmei Wang, Hao Wang, Defu Lian, Yasheng Wang, Ruiming Tang, and
      Enhong Chen. 2024. Understanding the planning of LLM agents: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.02716 (2024).
[113] Yangyu Huang, Tianyi Gao, Haoran Xu, Qihao Zhao, Yang Song, Zhipeng Gui, Tengchao Lv, Hao Chen, Lei Cui,
      Scarlett Li, et al. 2025. Peace: Empowering geologic map holistic understanding with mllms. In Proceedings of the
      Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference. 3899–3908.
[114] Yoshitaka Inoue, Tianci Song, Xinling Wang, Augustin Luna, and Tianfan Fu. 2025. DrugAgent: Multi-Agent Large
      Language Model-Based Reasoning for Drug-Target Interaction Prediction. In ICLR Workshop on Machine Learning for
      Genomics Explorations.
[115] John J Irwin, Teague Sterling, Michael M Mysinger, Erin S Bolstad, and Ryan G Coleman. 2012. ZINC: a free tool to
      discover chemistry for biology. Journal of chemical information and modeling 52, 7 (2012), 1757–1768.
[116] Shoichi Ishida, Tomohiro Sato, Teruki Honma, and Kei Terayama. 2025. Large language models open new way of
      AI-assisted molecule design for chemists. Journal of Cheminformatics 17, 1 (2025), 36.
[117] Md Ashraful Islam, Mohammed Eunus Ali, and Md Rizwan Parvez. 2024. MapCoder: Multi-Agent Code Generation
      for Competitive Problem Solving. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
      Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 4912–4944.
[118] Juyong Jiang, Fan Wang, Jiasi Shen, Sungju Kim, and Sunghun Kim. 2024. A survey on large language models for
      code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.00515 (2024).
[119] Xue Jiang, Yihong Dong, Lecheng Wang, Zheng Fang, Qiwei Shang, Ge Li, Zhi Jin, and Wenpin Jiao. 2024. Self-
      planning code generation with large language models. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology
      33, 7 (2024), 1–30.
[120] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R Narasimhan. 2024.
      SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-world Github Issues?. In The Twelfth International Conference on
      Learning Representations.
[121] Di Jin, Eileen Pan, Nassim Oufattole, Wei-Hung Weng, Hanyi Fang, and Peter Szolovits. 2021. What disease does this
      patient have? a large-scale open domain question answering dataset from medical exams. Applied Sciences 11, 14
      (2021), 6421.
[122] Haolin Jin, Linghan Huang, Haipeng Cai, Jun Yan, Bo Li, and Huaming Chen. 2024. From llms to llm-based agents for
      software engineering: A survey of current, challenges and future. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.02479 (2024).
[123] Qiao Jin, Bhuwan Dhingra, Zhengping Liu, William Cohen, and Xinghua Lu. 2019. PubMedQA: A Dataset for
      Biomedical Research Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
      Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP).
      2567–2577.
[124] Wengong Jin, Connor Coley, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. 2017. Predicting organic reaction outcomes with
      weisfeiler-lehman network. Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[125] Alistair EW Johnson, Lucas Bulgarelli, Lu Shen, Alvin Gayles, Ayad Shammout, Steven Horng, Tom J Pollard, Sicheng
      Hao, Benjamin Moody, Brian Gow, et al. 2023. MIMIC-IV, a freely accessible electronic health record dataset. Scientific
      data 10, 1 (2023), 1.


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                            111:41


[126] Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel S Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A Large Scale Distantly Supervised
      Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehension. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 1601–1611.
[127] René Just, Darioush Jalali, and Michael D Ernst. 2014. Defects4J: A database of existing faults to enable controlled
      testing studies for Java programs. In Proceedings of the 2014 international symposium on software testing and analysis.
      437–440.
[128] Yeonghun Kang and Jihan Kim. 2024. ChatMOF: an artificial intelligence system for predicting and generating
      metal-organic frameworks using large language models. Nature communications 15, 1 (2024), 4705.
[129] Zixuan Ke, Fangkai Jiao, Yifei Ming, Xuan-Phi Nguyen, Austin Xu, Do Xuan Long, Minzhi Li, Chengwei Qin, Peifeng
      Wang, Silvio Savarese, et al. 2025. A survey of frontiers in llm reasoning: Inference scaling, learning to reason, and
      agentic systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.09037 (2025).
[130] M Keestra et al. 2017. Metacognition and Reflection by Interdisciplinary Experts: Insights from Cognitive Science and
      Philosophy. Issues in Interdisciplinary Studies 35 (2017).
[131] Jaechang Kim, Jinmin Goh, Inseok Hwang, Jaewoong Cho, and Jungseul Ok. 2025. Bridging the Gap between Expert
      and Language Models: Concept-guided Chess Commentary Generation and Evaluation. In Proceedings of the 2025
      Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
      Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers). 9497–9516.
[132] Junseok Kim, Nakyeong Yang, and Kyomin Jung. 2024. Persona is a Double-edged Sword: Mitigating the Negative
      Impact of Role-playing Prompts in Zero-shot Reasoning Tasks. arXiv preprint arxiv:2408.08631 (2024).
[133] Sehoon Kim, Suhong Moon, Ryan Tabrizi, Nicholas Lee, Michael W Mahoney, Kurt Keutzer, and Amir Gholami. 2024.
      An LLM compiler for parallel function calling. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning.
      24370–24391.
[134] Yubin Kim, Hyewon Jeong, Chanwoo Park, Eugene Park, Haipeng Zhang, Xin Liu, Hyeonhoon Lee, Daniel McDuff,
      Marzyeh Ghassemi, Cynthia Breazeal, et al. 2025. Tiered Agentic Oversight: A Hierarchical Multi-Agent System for
      AI Safety in Healthcare. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.12482 (2025).
[135] Yubin Kim, Chanwoo Park, Hyewon Jeong, Yik S Chan, Xuhai Xu, Daniel McDuff, Hyeonhoon Lee, Marzyeh Ghassemi,
      Cynthia Breazeal, and Hae W Park. 2024. Mdagents: An adaptive collaboration of llms for medical decision-making.
      Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 79410–79452.
[136] Aobo Kong, Shiwan Zhao, Hao Chen, Qicheng Li, Yong Qin, Ruiqi Sun, Xin Zhou, Enzhi Wang, and Xiaohang Dong.
      2024. Better Zero-Shot Reasoning with Role-Play Prompting. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North
      American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long
      Papers). 4099–4113.
[137] Yuqing Kong, Yunqi Li, Yubo Zhang, Zhihuan Huang, and Jinzhao Wu. 2022. Eliciting thinking hierarchy without a
      prior. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35 (2022), 13329–13341.
[138] Adarsh Kumarappan, Mo Tiwari, Peiyang Song, Robert Joseph George, Chaowei Xiao, and Anima Anandkumar. 2025.
      LeanAgent: Lifelong Learning for Formal Theorem Proving. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning
      Representations.
[139] Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle
      Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, et al. 2019. Natural questions: a benchmark for question answering
      research. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics 7 (2019), 453–466.
[140] Alexey Lagunin, Dmitrii Filimonov, Alexey Zakharov, Wei Xie, Ying Huang, Fucheng Zhu, Tianxiang Shen, Jianhua
      Yao, and Vladimir Poroikov. 2009. Computer-aided prediction of rodent carcinogenicity by PASS and CISOC-PSCT.
      QSAR & Combinatorial Science 28, 8 (2009), 806–810.
[141] Yuhang Lai, Chengxi Li, Yiming Wang, Tianyi Zhang, Ruiqi Zhong, Luke Zettlemoyer, Wen-tau Yih, Daniel Fried, Sida
      Wang, and Tao Yu. 2023. DS-1000: A natural and reliable benchmark for data science code generation. In International
      Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 18319–18345.
[142] Jason J Lau, Soumya Gayen, Asma Ben Abacha, and Dina Demner-Fushman. 2018. A dataset of clinically generated
      visual questions and answers about radiology images. Scientific data 5, 1 (2018), 1–10.
[143] Andrew Laverick, Kristen Surrao, Inigo Zubeldia, Boris Bolliet, Miles Cranmer, Antony Lewis, Blake Sherwin, and
      Julien Lesgourgues. 2024. Multi-Agent System for Cosmological Parameter Analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.00431
      (2024).
[144] Chaehong Lee, Varatheepan Paramanayakam, Andreas Karatzas, Yanan Jian, Michael Fore, Heming Liao, Fuxun Yu,
      Ruopu Li, Iraklis Anagnostopoulos, and Dimitrios Stamoulis. 2025. Multi-Agent Geospatial Copilots for Remote
      Sensing Workflows. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.16254 (2025).
[145] Namkyeong Lee, Edward De Brouwer, Ehsan Hajiramezanali, Tommaso Biancalani, Chanyoung Park, and Gabriele
      Scalia. 2025. RAG-Enhanced Collaborative LLM Agents for Drug Discovery. In ICLR Workshop on Machine Learning
      for Genomics Explorations.


                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:42                                                                                                         Zhao et al.


[146] Sunjae Lee, Junyoung Choi, Jungjae Lee, Munim Hasan Wasi, Hojun Choi, Steve Ko, Sangeun Oh, and Insik Shin.
      2024. Mobilegpt: Augmenting llm with human-like app memory for mobile task automation. In Proceedings of the
      30th Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking. 1119–1133.
[147] Mosh Levy, Alon Jacoby, and Yoav Goldberg. 2024. Same Task, More Tokens: the Impact of Input Length on the
      Reasoning Performance of Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 15339–15353.
[148] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler,
      Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp
      tasks. Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020), 9459–9474.
[149] Binxu Li, Tiankai Yan, Yuanting Pan, Jie Luo, Ruiyang Ji, Jiayuan Ding, Zhe Xu, Shilong Liu, Haoyu Dong, Zihao Lin,
      et al. 2024. MMedAgent: Learning to Use Medical Tools with Multi-modal Agent. In Findings of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024. 8745–8760.
[150] Chunyuan Li, Cliff Wong, Sheng Zhang, Naoto Usuyama, Haotian Liu, Jianwei Yang, Tristan Naumann, Hoifung
      Poon, and Jianfeng Gao. 2023. Llava-med: Training a large language-and-vision assistant for biomedicine in one day.
      Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 28541–28564.
[151] Guohao Li, Hasan Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. 2023. Camel: Communicative
      agents for" mind" exploration of large language model society. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36
      (2023), 51991–52008.
[152] Junkai Li, Yunghwei Lai, Weitao Li, Jingyi Ren, Meng Zhang, Xinhui Kang, Siyu Wang, Peng Li, Ya-Qin Zhang,
      Weizhi Ma, et al. 2024. Agent hospital: A simulacrum of hospital with evolvable medical agents. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2405.02957 (2024).
[153] Nian Li, Chen Gao, Mingyu Li, Yong Li, and Qingmin Liao. 2024. EconAgent: Large Language Model-Empowered
      Agents for Simulating Macroeconomic Activities. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 15523–15536.
[154] Xinzhe Li. 2025. A review of prominent paradigms for llm-based agents: Tool use, planning (including rag), and
      feedback learning. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics. 9760–9779.
[155] Xinyue Li, Zhenpeng Chen, Jie M. Zhang, Yiling Lou, Tianlin Li, Weisong Sun, Yang Liu, and Xuanzhe Liu. 2024.
      Benchmarking Bias in Large Language Models during Role-Playing. arXiv preprint arxiv:2411.00585 (2024).
[156] Xiaonan Li and Xipeng Qiu. 2023. Finding Support Examples for In-Context Learning. In Findings of the Association
      for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023. 6219–6235.
[157] Yuan Li, Yixuan Zhang, and Lichao Sun. 2023. Metaagents: Simulating interactions of human behaviors for llm-based
      task-oriented coordination via collaborative generative agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06500 (2023).
[158] Zhenlong Li and Huan Ning. 2023. Autonomous GIS: the next-generation AI-powered GIS. International Journal of
      Digital Earth 16, 2 (2023), 4668–4686.
[159] Zhenlong Li, Huan Ning, Song Gao, Krzysztof Janowicz, Wenwen Li, Samantha T Arundel, Chaowei Yang, Budhendra
      Bhaduri, Shaowen Wang, A Zhu, et al. 2025. Giscience in the era of artificial intelligence: A research agenda towards
      autonomous gis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23633 (2025).
[160] Zhucong Li, Jin Xiao, Bowei Zhang, Zhijian Zhou, Qianyu He, Fenglei Cao, Jiaqing Liang, and Yuan Qi. 2025. ChemHTS:
      Hierarchical Tool Stacking for Enhancing Chemical Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14327 (2025).
[161] Kaiqu Liang, Zixu Zhang, and Jaime F Fisac. 2024. Introspective Planning: Aligning Robots’ Uncertainty with Inherent
      Task Ambiguity. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 71998–72031.
[162] Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang, Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang, Shuming Shi, and Zhaopeng
      Tu. 2024. Encouraging Divergent Thinking in Large Language Models through Multi-Agent Debate. In Proceedings of
      the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 17889–17904.
[163] Xun Liang, Jiawei Yang, Yezhaohui Wang, Chen Tang, Zifan Zheng, Shichao Song, Zehao Lin, Yebin Yang, Simin
      Niu, Hanyu Wang, et al. 2025. Surveyx: Academic survey automation via large language models. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2502.14776 (2025).
[164] Zhehui Liao, Maria Antoniak, Inyoung Cheong, Evie Yu-Yen Cheng, Ai-Heng Lee, Kyle Lo, Joseph Chee Chang, and
      Amy X Zhang. 2024. LLMs as Research Tools: A Large Scale Survey of Researchers’ Usage and Perceptions. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2411.05025 (2024).
[165] Christopher A Lipinski, Franco Lombardo, Beryl W Dominy, and Paul J Feeney. 1997. Experimental and computational
      approaches to estimate solubility and permeability in drug discovery and development settings. Advanced drug
      delivery reviews 23, 1-3 (1997), 3–25.
[166] Bang Liu, Xinfeng Li, Jiayi Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Tanjin He, Sirui Hong, Hongzhang Liu, Shaokun Zhang, Kaitao
      Song, Kunlun Zhu, et al. 2025. Advances and challenges in foundation agents: From brain-inspired intelligence to
      evolutionary, collaborative, and safe systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01990 (2025).



J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                          111:43


[167] Bo Liu, Li-Ming Zhan, Li Xu, Lin Ma, Yan Yang, and Xiao-Ming Wu. 2021. Slake: A semantically-labeled knowledge-
      enhanced dataset for medical visual question answering. In 2021 IEEE 18th international symposium on biomedical
      imaging (ISBI). IEEE, 1650–1654.
[168] Hao Liu, Zi-Yi Dou, Yixin Wang, Nanyun Peng, and Yisong Yue. 2024. Uncertainty Calibration for Tool-Using
      Language Agents. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024. 16781–16805.
[169] Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Is your code generated by chatgpt really
      correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation. Advances in Neural Information Processing
      Systems 36 (2023), 21558–21572.
[170] Pengfei Liu, Jun Tao, and Zhixiang Ren. 2025. A quantitative analysis of knowledge-learning preferences in large
      language models in molecular science. Nature Machine Intelligence 7, 2 (2025), 315–327.
[171] Pengfei Liu, Weizhe Yuan, Jinlan Fu, Zhengbao Jiang, Hiroaki Hayashi, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Pre-train, prompt,
      and predict: A systematic survey of prompting methods in natural language processing. Comput. Surveys 55, 9 (2023),
      1–35.
[172] Shengchao Liu, Jiongxiao Wang, Yijin Yang, Chengpeng Wang, Ling Liu, Hongyu Guo, and Chaowei Xiao. 2024.
      Conversational drug editing using retrieval and domain feedback. In The twelfth international conference on learning
      representations.
[173] Wei Liu, Jun Li, Yitao Tang, Yining Zhao, Chaozhong Liu, Meiyi Song, Zhenlin Ju, Shwetha V Kumar, Yiling Lu,
      Rehan Akbani, et al. 2025. DrBioRight 2.0: an LLM-powered bioinformatics chatbot for large-scale cancer functional
      proteomics analysis. Nature communications 16, 1 (2025), 2256.
[174] Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding, Kaiwen Men, Kejuan
      Yang, et al. 2024. AgentBench: Evaluating LLMs as Agents. In ICLR.
[175] Yang Liu, Weixing Chen, Yongjie Bai, Xiaodan Liang, Guanbin Li, Wen Gao, and Liang Lin. 2025. Aligning cyber
      space with physical world: A comprehensive survey on embodied ai. IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics (2025).
[176] Yungeng Liu, Zan Chen, Yu Guang Wang, and Yiqing Shen. 2024. Toursynbio-search: A large language model
      driven agent framework for unified search method for protein engineering. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on
      Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM). IEEE, 5395–5400.
[177] Zhengyao Liu, Yunlong Ma, Jingxuan Xu, Junchen Ai, Xiang Gao, Hailong Sun, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2025.
      Agent That Debugs: Dynamic State-Guided Vulnerability Repair. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.07634 (2025).
[178] Chris Lu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, Jakob Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha. 2024. The ai scientist: Towards
      fully automated open-ended scientific discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06292 (2024).
[179] Qinyu Luo, Yining Ye, Shihao Liang, Zhong Zhang, Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Yesai Wu, Xin Cong, Yankai Lin, Yingli
      Zhang, et al. 2024. RepoAgent: An LLM-Powered Open-Source Framework for Repository-level Code Documentation
      Generation. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System
      Demonstrations. 436–464.
[180] Yi Luo, Linghang Shi, Yihao Li, Aobo Zhuang, Yeyun Gong, Ling Liu, and Chen Lin. 2025. From intention to
      implementation: automating biomedical research via LLMs. Science China Information Sciences 68, 7 (2025), 1–18.
[181] Bohan Lyu, Xin Cong, Heyang Yu, Pan Yang, Yujia Qin, Yining Ye, Yaxi Lu, Zhong Zhang, Yukun Yan, Yankai Lin,
      Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2023. GitAgent: Facilitating Autonomous Agent with GitHub by Tool Extension.
      arXiv preprint arxiv:2312.17294 (2023).
[182] Weiyu Ma, Qirui Mi, Yongcheng Zeng, Xue Yan, Runji Lin, Yuqiao Wu, Jun Wang, and Haifeng Zhang. 2024. Large
      language models play starcraft ii: Benchmarks and a chain of summarization approach. Advances in Neural Information
      Processing Systems 37 (2024), 133386–133442.
[183] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Kevin Hall, Luyu Gao, Rohan Majumder, Julian McAuley, Srijan Narayan,
      and Sean Welleck. 2023. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback. In Advances in Neural Information
      Processing Systems, Vol. 36.
[184] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon, Nouha Dziri,
      Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, et al. 2023. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback. Advances in
      Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 46534–46594.
[185] Agile Manifesto. 2001. Manifesto for Agile Software Development. http://www. agilemanifesto. org/ (2001).
[186] Tula Masterman, Sandi Besen, Mason Sawtell, and Alex Chao. 2024. The landscape of emerging ai agent architectures
      for reasoning, planning, and tool calling: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.11584 (2024).
[187] Andrew D McNaughton, Gautham Krishna Sankar Ramalaxmi, Agustin Kruel, Carter R Knutson, Rohith A Varikoti,
      and Neeraj Kumar. 2024. Cactus: Chemistry agent connecting tool usage to science. ACS omega 9, 46 (2024),
      46563–46573.
[188] Nikita Mehandru, Amanda K Hall, Olesya Melnichenko, Yulia Dubinina, Daniel Tsirulnikov, David Bamman, Ahmed
      Alaa, Scott Saponas, and Venkat S Malladi. 2025. BioAgents: Democratizing bioinformatics analysis with multi-agent
      systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06314 (2025).


                                                        J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:44                                                                                                          Zhao et al.


[189] Shikib Mehri and Maxine Eskenazi. 2020. Unsupervised Evaluation of Interactive Dialog with DialoGPT. In Proceedings
      of the 21th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue. 225–235.
[190] Lingrui Mei, Jiayu Yao, Yuyao Ge, Yiwei Wang, Baolong Bi, Yujun Cai, Jiazhi Liu, Mingyu Li, Zhong-Zhi Li, Duzhen
      Zhang, et al. 2025. A Survey of Context Engineering for Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.13334
      (2025).
[191] Sewon Min, Xinxi Lyu, Ari Holtzman, Mikel Artetxe, Mike Lewis, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2022.
      Rethinking the Role of Demonstrations: What Makes In-Context Learning Work?. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference
      on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 11048–11064.
[192] Marvin Minsky. 1986. Society of mind. Simon and Schuster.
[193] Lluis Morey, Luigi Aloia, Luca Cozzuto, Salvador Aznar Benitah, and Luciano Di Croce. 2013. RYBP and Cbx7 define
      specific biological functions of polycomb complexes in mouse embryonic stem cells. Cell reports 3, 1 (2013), 60–69.
[194] Adam Moss. 2025. The AI Cosmologist I: An Agentic System for Automated Data Analysis. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2504.03424 (2025).
[195] Xinyi Mou, Zhongyu Wei, and Xuan-Jing Huang. 2024. Unveiling the Truth and Facilitating Change: Towards
      Agent-based Large-scale Social Movement Simulation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics
      ACL 2024. 4789–4809.
[196] Chunyan Mu, Muhammad Najib, and Nir Oren. 2025. Responsibility-aware Strategic Reasoning in Probabilistic
      Multi-Agent Systems. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 39. 23258–23266.
[197] Sriraam Natarajan, Saurabh Mathur, Sahil Sidheekh, Wolfgang Stammer, and Kristian Kersting. 2025. Human-in-the-
      loop or AI-in-the-loop? Automate or Collaborate?. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
      Vol. 39. 28594–28600.
[198] Humza Naveed, Asad Ullah Khan, Shi Qiu, Muhammad Saqib, Saeed Anwar, Muhammad Usman, Naveed Akhtar,
      Nick Barnes, and Ajmal Mian. 2023. A comprehensive overview of large language models. ACM Transactions on
      Intelligent Systems and Technology (2023).
[199] Subash Neupane, Sudip Mittal, and Shahram Rahimi. 2025. Towards a hipaa compliant agentic ai system in healthcare.
      arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17669 (2025).
[200] Huan Ning, Zhenlong Li, Temitope Akinboyewa, and M Naser Lessani. 2025. An autonomous GIS agent framework
      for geospatial data retrieval. International Journal of Digital Earth 18, 1 (2025), 2458688.
[201] David Ochoa, Andrew Hercules, Miguel Carmona, Daniel Suveges, Jarrod Baker, Cinzia Malangone, Irene Lopez,
      Alfredo Miranda, Carlos Cruz-Castillo, Luca Fumis, et al. 2023. The next-generation Open Targets Platform: reimagined,
      redesigned, rebuilt. Nucleic acids research 51, D1 (2023), D1353–D1359.
[202] Timothy J O’Donnell, Alex Rubinsteyn, and Uri Laserson. 2020. MHCflurry 2.0: improved pan-allele prediction of
      MHC class I-presented peptides by incorporating antigen processing. Cell systems 11, 1 (2020), 42–48.
[203] Ankit Pal, Logesh Kumar Umapathi, and Malaikannan Sankarasubbu. 2022. Medmcqa: A large-scale multi-subject
      multi-choice dataset for medical domain question answering. In Conference on health, inference, and learning. PMLR,
      248–260.
[204] Aosong Pan, Sameen Al-Azani, Yifei An, Zhipeng Jiang, Wen-Bin Wang, Xipeng Wan, and Man Lan. 2023. LogicLM:
      Empowering Large Language Models with Tool-Enhanced Logic-Evolving Reasoning. In Findings of the Association
      for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023. 8500–8518.
[205] Melissa Z Pan, Mert Cemri, Lakshya A Agrawal, Shuyi Yang, Bhavya Chopra, Rishabh Tiwari, Kurt Keutzer, Aditya
      Parameswaran, Kannan Ramchandran, Dan Klein, et al. 2025. Why do multiagent systems fail?. In ICLR 2025 Workshop
      on Building Trust in Language Models and Applications.
[206] Himanshu Gautam Pandey, Akhil Amod, and Shivang Kumar. 2024. Advancing Healthcare Automation: Multi-Agent
      System for Medical Necessity Justification. In Proceedings of the 23rd Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language
      Processing. 39–49.
[207] Dmitrii Pantiukhin, Boris Shapkin, Ivan Kuznetsov, Antonia Anna Jost, and Nikolay Koldunov. 2025. Accelerating
      Earth Science Discovery via Multi-Agent LLM Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.05854 (2025).
[208] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023.
      Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th annual acm symposium on user
      interface software and technology. 1–22.
[209] Anthony D Pellegrini. 2009. The role of play in human development. Oxford University Press.
[210] Jean Piaget. 2013. The construction of reality in the child. Routledge.
[211] Giorgio Piatti, Zhijing Jin, Max Kleiman-Weiner, Bernhard Schölkopf, Mrinmaya Sachan, and Rada Mihalcea. 2024.
      Cooperate or collapse: Emergence of sustainable cooperation in a society of llm agents. Advances in Neural Information
      Processing Systems 37 (2024), 111715–111759.
[212] Kevin Pu, KJ Kevin Feng, Tovi Grossman, Tom Hope, Bhavana Dalvi Mishra, Matt Latzke, Jonathan Bragg, Joseph Chee
      Chang, and Pao Siangliulue. 2025. Ideasynth: Iterative research idea development through evolving and composing


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                           111:45


      idea facets with literature-grounded feedback. In Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
      Systems. 1–31.
[213] Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Xin
      Cong, et al. 2024. ChatDev: Communicative Agents for Software Development. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
      Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 15174–15186.
[214] Boyu Qiao, Kun Li, Wei Zhou, Shilong Li, Qianqian Lu, and Songlin Hu. 2025. BotSim: LLM-Powered Malicious Social
      Botnet Simulation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 39. 14377–14385.
[215] Yujia Qin, Shengding Hu, Yankai Lin, Weize Chen, Ning Ding, Ganqu Cui, Zheni Zeng, Xuanhe Zhou, Yufei Huang,
      Chaojun Xiao, et al. 2024. Tool learning with foundation models. Comput. Surveys 57, 4 (2024), 1–40.
[216] Yihao Qin, Shangwen Wang, Yiling Lou, Jinhao Dong, Kaixin Wang, Xiaoling Li, and Xiaoguang Mao. 2024. AgentFL:
      Scaling LLM-based Fault Localization to Project-Level Context. CoRR (2024).
[217] Haoxuan Qu, Xiaofei Hui, Yujun Cai, and Jun Liu. 2023. LMC: large model collaboration with cross-assessment for
      training-free open-set object recognition. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Neural Information
      Processing Systems. Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 2016, 14 pages.
[218] Yuanhao Qu, Kaixuan Huang, Ming Yin, Kanghong Zhan, Dyllan Liu, Di Yin, Henry C Cousins, William A Johnson,
      Xiaotong Wang, Mihir Shah, et al. 2025. CRISPR-GPT for agentic automation of gene-editing experiments. Nature
      Biomedical Engineering (2025), 1–14.
[219] Roshan Rao, Nicholas Bhattacharya, Neil Thomas, Yan Duan, Peter Chen, John Canny, Pieter Abbeel, and Yun Song.
      2019. Evaluating protein transfer learning with TAPE. Advances in neural information processing systems 32 (2019).
[220] Suhas SP Rao, Miriam H Huntley, Neva C Durand, Elena K Stamenova, Ivan D Bochkov, James T Robinson, Adrian L
      Sanborn, Ido Machol, Arina D Omer, Eric S Lander, et al. 2014. A 3D map of the human genome at kilobase resolution
      reveals principles of chromatin looping. Cell 159, 7 (2014), 1665–1680.
[221] Ruiyang Ren, Peng Qiu, Yingqi Qu, Jing Liu, Wayne Xin Zhao, Hua Wu, Ji-Rong Wen, and Haifeng Wang. 2024. BASES:
      Large-scale Web Search User Simulation with Large Language Model based Agents. In Findings of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024. 902–917.
[222] Shuo Ren, Pu Jian, Zhenjiang Ren, Chunlin Leng, Can Xie, and Jiajun Zhang. 2025. Towards scientific intelligence: A
      survey of llm-based scientific agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.24047 (2025).
[223] Pat Rondon, Renyao Wei, José Cambronero, Jürgen Cito, Aaron Sun, Siddhant Sanyam, Michele Tufano, and Satish
      Chandra. 2025. Evaluating Agent-based Program Repair at Google. CoRR (2025).
[224] Yusuf H Roohani, Andrew H Lee, Qian Huang, Jian Vora, Zachary Steinhart, Kexin Huang, Alexander Marson, Percy
      Liang, and Jure Leskovec. 2025. BioDiscoveryAgent: An AI Agent for Designing Genetic Perturbation Experiments.
      In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations.
[225] Giulio Rossetti, Massimo Stella, Rémy Cazabet, Katherine Abramski, Erica Cau, Salvatore Citraro, Andrea Failla,
      Riccardo Improta, Virginia Morini, and Valentina Pansanella. 2024. Y social: an llm-powered social media digital twin.
      arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00818 (2024).
[226] Yixiang Ruan, Chenyin Lu, Ning Xu, Yuchen He, Yixin Chen, Jian Zhang, Jun Xuan, Jianzhang Pan, Qun Fang, Hanyu
      Gao, et al. 2024. An automatic end-to-end chemical synthesis development platform powered by large language
      models. Nature communications 15, 1 (2024), 10160.
[227] Stuart J Russell and Peter Norvig. 2016. Artificial intelligence: a modern approach. pearson.
[228] Daniel Saeedi, Denise K Buckner, Jose C Aponte, and Amirali Aghazadeh. 2025. AstroAgents: A Multi-Agent AI
      for Hypothesis Generation from Mass Spectrometry Data. In Towards Agentic AI for Science: Hypothesis Generation,
      Comprehension, Quantification, and Validation.
[229] Liane Salewski, Arian Safavi, and R. Groh. 2024. Can LLMs Learn to Reason from Role-Playing?. In Proceedings of the
      2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
      Technologies.
[230] Carlos G Sanchez, Christopher M Acker, Audrey Gray, Malini Varadarajan, Cheng Song, Nadire R Cochran, Steven
      Paula, Alicia Lindeman, Shaojian An, Gregory McAllister, et al. 2021. Genome-wide CRISPR screen identifies protein
      pathways modulating tau protein levels in neurons. Communications biology 4, 1 (2021), 736.
[231] Samantha G Scharenberg, Wentao Dong, Ali Ghoochani, Kwamina Nyame, Roni Levin-Konigsberg, Aswini R Krishnan,
      Eshaan S Rawat, Kaitlyn Spees, Michael C Bassik, and Monther Abu-Remaileh. 2023. An SPNS1-dependent lysosomal
      lipid transport pathway that enables cell survival under choline limitation. Science Advances 9, 16 (2023), eadf8966.
[232] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola
      Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools. Advances in
      Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 68539–68551.
[233] Samuel Schmidgall and Michael Moor. 2025. Agentrxiv: Towards collaborative autonomous research. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2503.18102 (2025).



                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:46                                                                                                           Zhao et al.


[234] Samuel Schmidgall, Yusheng Su, Ze Wang, Ximeng Sun, Jialian Wu, Xiaodong Yu, Jiang Liu, Michael Moor, Zicheng Liu,
      and Emad Barsoum. 2025. Agent laboratory: Using llm agents as research assistants. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.04227
      (2025).
[235] Samuel Schmidgall, Rojin Ziaei, Carl Harris, Eduardo Pontes Reis, Jeffrey Jopling, and Michael Moor. 2024. AgentClinic:
      a multimodal agent benchmark to evaluate AI in simulated clinical environments. CoRR (2024).
[236] Ralf Schmidt, Zachary Steinhart, Madeline Layeghi, Jacob W Freimer, Raymund Bueno, Vinh Q Nguyen, Franziska
      Blaeschke, Chun Jimmie Ye, and Alexander Marson. 2022. CRISPR activation and interference screens decode
      stimulation responses in primary human T cells. Science 375, 6580 (2022), eabj4008.
[237] Sander Schulhoff, Michael Ilie, Nishant Balepur, Konstantine Kahadze, Amanda Liu, Chenglei Si, Yinheng Li, Aayush
      Gupta, HyoJung Han, Sevien Schulhoff, et al. 2024. The prompt report: a systematic survey of prompt engineering
      techniques. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.06608 (2024).
[238] Minju Seo, Jinheon Baek, Seongyun Lee, and Sung Ju Hwang. 2025. Paper2code: Automating code generation from
      scientific papers in machine learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17192 (2025).
[239] Murray Shanahan, Kyle McDonell, and Laria Reynolds. 2023. Role play with large language models. Nature 623, 7987
      (2023), 493–498.
[240] Freda Shi, Mirac Suzgun, Markus Freitag, Xuezhi Wang, Suraj Srivats, Soroush Vosoughi, Hyung Won Chung, Yi
      Tay, Sebastian Ruder, Denny Zhou, et al. 2023. Language models are multilingual chain-of-thought reasoners. In The
      Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations.
[241] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Reflexion: Language
      agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 8634–8652.
[242] Mohit Shridhar, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Cote, Yonatan Bisk, Adam Trischler, and Matthew Hausknecht. 2021.
      ALFWorld: Aligning Text and Embodied Environments for Interactive Learning. In International Conference on
      Learning Representations.
[243] Simranjit Singh, Michael Fore, and Dimitrios Stamoulis. 2024. Geollm-engine: A realistic environment for building
      geospatial copilots. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 585–594.
[244] Simranjit Singh, Andreas Karatzas, Michael Fore, Iraklis Anagnostopoulos, and Dimitrios Stamoulis. 2024. An llm-tool
      compiler for fused parallel function calling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.17438 (2024).
[245] Aarohi Srivastava, Abhinav Rastogi, Abhishek Rao, Abu Awal Shoeb, Abubakar Abid, Adam Fisch, Adam R Brown,
      Adam Santoro, Aditya Gupta, Adri Garriga-Alonso, et al. 2023. Beyond the imitation game: Quantifying and
      extrapolating the capabilities of language models. Transactions on machine learning research (2023).
[246] Isabella Stewart and Markus J Buehler. 2025. Molecular analysis and design using generative artificial intelligence via
      multi-agent modeling. Molecular Systems Design & Engineering 10, 4 (2025), 314–337.
[247] Buxin Su, Jiayao Zhang, Natalie Collina, Yuling Yan, Didong Li, Kyunghyun Cho, Jianqing Fan, Aaron Roth, and
      Weijie Su. 2025. The ICML 2023 ranking experiment: Examining author self-assessment in ML/AI peer review. J.
      Amer. Statist. Assoc. just-accepted (2025), 1–16.
[248] Haoyang Su, Renqi Chen, Shixiang Tang, Zhenfei Yin, Xinzhe Zheng, Jinzhe Li, Biqing Qi, Qi Wu, Hui Li, Wanli
      Ouyang, Philip Torr, Bowen Zhou, and Nanqing Dong. 2025. Many Heads Are Better Than One: Improved Scientific
      Idea Generation by A LLM-Based Multi-Agent System. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for
      Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 28201–28240.
[249] Houcheng Su, Weicai Long, and Yanlin Zhang. 2025. BioMaster: Multi-agent System for Automated Bioinformatics
      Analysis Workflow. bioRxiv (2025), 2025–01.
[250] Jiankai Sun, Chuanyang Zheng, Enze Xie, Zhengying Liu, Ruihang Chu, Jianing Qiu, Jiaqi Xu, Mingyu Ding, Hongyang
      Li, Mengzhe Geng, et al. 2025. A survey of reasoning with foundation models: Concepts, methodologies, and outlook.
      Comput. Surveys 57, 11 (2025), 1–43.
[251] Damian Szklarczyk, Alberto Santos, Christian Von Mering, Lars Juhl Jensen, Peer Bork, and Michael Kuhn. 2016.
      STITCH 5: augmenting protein–chemical interaction networks with tissue and affinity data. Nucleic acids research 44,
      D1 (2016), D380–D384.
[252] Jiakai Tang, Heyang Gao, Xuchen Pan, Lei Wang, Haoran Tan, Dawei Gao, Yushuo Chen, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin,
      Yaliang Li, et al. 2025. GenSim: A General Social Simulation Platform with Large Language Model based Agents.
      In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational
      Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (System Demonstrations). 143–150.
[253] Jiabin Tang, Lianghao Xia, Zhonghang Li, and Chao Huang. 2025. AI-Researcher: Autonomous Scientific Innovation.
      arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.18705 (2025).
[254] Xiangru Tang, Anni Zou, Zhuosheng Zhang, Ziming Li, Yilun Zhao, Xingyao Zhang, Arman Cohan, and Mark
      Gerstein. 2024. MedAgents: Large Language Models as Collaborators for Zero-shot Medical Reasoning. In Findings of
      the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024. 599–621.



J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                            111:47


[255] Yang Tang, Chaoqiang Zhao, Jianrui Wang, Chongzhen Zhang, Qiyu Sun, Wei Xing Zheng, Wenli Du, Feng Qian,
      and Juergen Kurths. 2022. Perception and navigation in autonomous systems in the era of learning: A survey. IEEE
      Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems 34, 12 (2022), 9604–9624.
[256] Wei Tao, Yucheng Zhou, Yanlin Wang, Wenqiang Zhang, Hongyu Zhang, and Yu Cheng. 2024. Magis: Llm-based
      multi-agent framework for github issue resolution. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024),
      51963–51993.
[257] Raghav Thind, Youran Sun, Ling Liang, and Haizhao Yang. 2025. OptimAI: Optimization from Natural Language
      Using LLM-Powered AI Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16918 (2025).
[258] Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O’Sullivan, and Hoang D Nguyen. 2025.
      Multi-agent collaboration mechanisms: A survey of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06322 (2025).
[259] Oleg Trott and Arthur J Olson. 2010. AutoDock Vina: improving the speed and accuracy of docking with a new
      scoring function, efficient optimization, and multithreading. Journal of computational chemistry 31, 2 (2010), 455–461.
[260] Tao Tu, Mike Schaekermann, Anil Palepu, Khaled Saab, Jan Freyberg, Ryutaro Tanno, Amy Wang, Brenna Li, Mohamed
      Amin, Yong Cheng, et al. 2025. Towards conversational diagnostic artificial intelligence. Nature (2025), 1–9.
[261] Hanbin Wang, Zhenghao Liu, Shuo Wang, Ganqu Cui, Ning Ding, Zhiyuan Liu, and Ge Yu. 2024. INTERVENOR:
      Prompting the Coding Ability of Large Language Models with the Interactive Chain of Repair. In Findings of the
      Association for Computational Linguistics ACL 2024. 2081–2107.
[262] Han Wang, An Zhang, Nguyen Duy Tai, Jun Sun, Tat-Seng Chua, et al. 2024. Ali-agent: Assessing llms’ alignment with
      human values via agent-based evaluation. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 99040–99088.
[263] Junyang Wang, Haiyang Xu, Haitao Jia, Xi Zhang, Ming Yan, Weizhou Shen, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, and Jitao Sang.
      2024. Mobile-agent-v2: Mobile device operation assistant with effective navigation via multi-agent collaboration.
      Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 2686–2710.
[264] Kun Wang, Guibin Zhang, Zhenhong Zhou, Jiahao Wu, Miao Yu, Shiqian Zhao, Chenlong Yin, Jinhu Fu, Yibo Yan,
      Hanjun Luo, et al. 2025. A comprehensive survey in llm (-agent) full stack safety: Data, training and deployment.
      arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.15585 (2025).
[265] Luoqi Wang, Haipeng Li, Linshu Hu, Jiarui Cai, and Zhenhong Du. 2024. Mitigating Interpretation Bias in Rock
      Records with Large Language Models: Insights from Paleoenvironmental Analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.09977
      (2024).
[266] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen,
      Yankai Lin, et al. 2024. A survey on large language model based autonomous agents. Frontiers of Computer Science 18,
      6 (2024), 186345.
[267] Lei Wang, Jingsen Zhang, Hao Yang, Zhi-Yuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Zeyu Zhang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Hao Sun, Ruihua
      Song, et al. 2025. User behavior simulation with large language model-based agents. ACM Transactions on Information
      Systems 43, 2 (2025), 1–37.
[268] Peiyi Wang, Lei Li, Liang Chen, Zefan Cai, Dawei Zhu, Binghuai Lin, Yunbo Cao, Lingpeng Kong, Qi Liu, Tianyu
      Liu, et al. 2024. Large Language Models are not Fair Evaluators. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
      Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 9440–9450.
[269] Ruida Wang, Rui Pan, Yuxin Li, Jipeng Zhang, Yizhen Jia, Shizhe Diao, Renjie Pi, Junjie Hu, and Tong Zhang. 2025.
      MA-LoT: Multi-Agent Lean-based Long Chain-of-Thought Reasoning enhances Formal Theorem Proving. arXiv
      e-prints (2025), arXiv–2503.
[270] Sihan Wang, Suiyang Jiang, Yibo Gao, Boming Wang, Shangqi Gao, and Xiahai Zhuang. 2025. Empowering Medical
      Multi-Agents with Clinical Consultation Flow for Dynamic Diagnosis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.16547 (2025).
[271] Shuai Wang, Weiwen Liu, Jingxuan Chen, Yuqi Zhou, Weinan Gan, Xingshan Zeng, Yuhan Che, Shuai Yu, Xinlong Hao,
      Kun Shao, et al. 2024. Gui agents with foundation models: A comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04890
      (2024).
[272] Shuangquan Wang, Huiyong Sun, Hui Liu, Dan Li, Youyong Li, and Tingjun Hou. 2016. ADMET evaluation in drug
      discovery. 16. Predicting hERG blockers by combining multiple pharmacophores and machine learning approaches.
      Molecular pharmaceutics 13, 8 (2016), 2855–2866.
[273] Wenxuan Wang, Xiaoyuan Liu, Kuiyi Gao, Jen-tse Huang, Youliang Yuan, Pinjia He, Shuai Wang, and Zhaopeng Tu.
      2025. Can’t See the Forest for the Trees: Benchmarking Multimodal Safety Awareness for Multimodal LLMs. CoRR
      (2025).
[274] Wenxuan Wang, Zizhan Ma, Zheng Wang, Chenghan Wu, Jiaming Ji, Wenting Chen, Xiang Li, and Yixuan Yuan. 2025.
      A survey of llm-based agents in medicine: How far are we from baymax? arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.11211 (2025).
[275] Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi Song, Bowen Li,
      Jaskirat Singh, et al. 2025. OpenHands: An Open Platform for AI Software Developers as Generalist Agents. In The
      Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations.



                                                         J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:48                                                                                                          Zhao et al.


[276] Yidong Wang, Qi Guo, Wenjin Yao, Hongbo Zhang, Xin Zhang, Zhen Wu, Meishan Zhang, Xinyu Dai, Qingsong
      Wen, Wei Ye, et al. 2024. Autosurvey: Large language models can automatically write surveys. Advances in neural
      information processing systems 37 (2024), 115119–115145.
[277] Yuqi Xie Yunfan Jiang Ajay Mandlekar Chaowei Xiao Yuke Zhu Linxi Fan Wang, Guanzhi and Anima Anandkumar.
      2023. Voyager: An Open-Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language Models. Intrinsically-Motivated and Open-Ended
      Learning Workshop @NeurIPS2023 (2023).
[278] Zhenhailong Wang, Shaoguang Mao, Wenshan Wu, Tao Ge, Furu Wei, and Heng Ji. 2024. Unleashing the Emergent
      Cognitive Synergy in Large Language Models: A Task-Solving Agent through Multi-Persona Self-Collaboration. In
      Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
      Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers). 257–279.
[279] Ziyue Wang, Junde Wu, Linghan Cai, Chang Han Low, Xihong Yang, Qiaxuan Li, and Yueming Jin. 2025. MedAgent-
      Pro: Towards Evidence-Based Multi-Modal Medical Diagnosis via Reasoning Agentic Workflow. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2503.18968 (2025).
[280] Zhenhailong Wang, Haiyang Xu, Junyang Wang, Xi Zhang, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, and Heng Ji. 2025.
      Mobile-agent-e: Self-evolving mobile assistant for complex tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.11733 (2025).
[281] Hao Wei, Jianing Qiu, Haibao Yu, and Wu Yuan. 2024. Medco: Medical education copilots based on a multi-agent
      framework. In European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 119–135.
[282] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. 2022.
      Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in neural information processing
      systems 35 (2022), 24824–24837.
[283] Jinjie Wei, Dingkang Yang, Yanshu Li, Qingyao Xu, Zhaoyu Chen, Mingcheng Li, Yue Jiang, Xiaolu Hou, and Lihua
      Zhang. 2024. Medaide: Towards an omni medical aide via specialized llm-based multi-agent collaboration. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2410.12532 (2024).
[284] Yixuan Weng, Minjun Zhu, Guangsheng Bao, Hongbo Zhang, Jindong Wang, Yue Zhang, and Linyi Yang. 2025.
      CycleResearcher: Improving Automated Research via Automated Review. In The Thirteenth International Conference
      on Learning Representations.
[285] David S Wishart, Yannick D Feunang, An C Guo, Elvis J Lo, Ana Marcu, Jason R Grant, Tanvir Sajed, Daniel Johnson,
      Carin Li, Zinat Sayeeda, et al. 2018. DrugBank 5.0: a major update to the DrugBank database for 2018. Nucleic acids
      research 46, D1 (2018), D1074–D1082.
[286] Michael Wooldridge and Nicholas R Jennings. 1998. Pitfalls of agent-oriented development. In Proceedings of the
      second international conference on Autonomous agents. 385–391.
[287] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Shaokun Zhang,
      Jiale Liu, et al. 2024. Autogen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications via multi-agent conversations. In First Conference
      on Language Modeling.
[288] Zhenqin Wu, Bharath Ramsundar, Evan N Feinberg, Joseph Gomes, Caleb Geniesse, Aneesh S Pappu, Karl Leswing,
      and Vijay Pande. 2018. MoleculeNet: a benchmark for molecular machine learning. Chemical science 9, 2 (2018),
      513–530.
[289] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and Lingming Zhang. 2024. Agentless: Demystifying LLM-based
      Software Engineering Agents. CoRR (2024).
[290] Yijia Xiao, Edward Sun, Di Luo, and Wei Wang. 2025. TradingAgents: Multi-Agents LLM Financial Trading Framework.
      In The First MARW: Multi-Agent AI in the Real World Workshop at AAAI.
[291] Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh J Hua, Zhoujun Cheng,
      Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al. 2024. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-ended tasks in real
      computer environments. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 52040–52094.
[292] Fengli Xu, Qianyue Hao, Zefang Zong, Jingwei Wang, Yunke Zhang, Jingyi Wang, Xiaochong Lan, Jiahui Gong,
      Tianjian Ouyang, Fanjin Meng, et al. 2025. Towards large reasoning models: A survey of reinforced reasoning with
      large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.09686 (2025).
[293] Youjun Xu, Ziwei Dai, Fangjin Chen, Shuaishi Gao, Jianfeng Pei, and Luhua Lai. 2015. Deep learning for drug-induced
      liver injury. Journal of chemical information and modeling 55, 10 (2015), 2085–2093.
[294] Yutaro Yamada, Robert Tjarko Lange, Cong Lu, Shengran Hu, Chris Lu, Jakob Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha.
      2025. The ai scientist-v2: Workshop-level automated scientific discovery via agentic tree search. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2504.08066 (2025).
[295] An Yan, Zhengyuan Yang, Wanrong Zhu, Kevin Lin, Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Jianwei Yang, Yiwu Zhong, Julian
      McAuley, Jianfeng Gao, et al. 2023. Gpt-4v in wonderland: Large multimodal models for zero-shot smartphone gui
      navigation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.07562 (2023).
[296] Xiangchao Yan, Shiyang Feng, Jiakang Yuan, Renqiu Xia, Bin Wang, Bo Zhang, and Lei Bai. 2025. Surveyforge: On
      the outline heuristics, memory-driven generation, and multi-dimensional evaluation for automated survey writing.


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                              111:49


      arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.04629 (2025).
[297] Dayu Yang, Antoine Simoulin, Xin Qian, Xiaoyi Liu, Yuwei Cao, Zhaopu Teng, and Grey Yang. 2025. DocAgent: A
      Multi-Agent System for Automated Code Documentation Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.08725 (2025).
[298] Ei-Wen Yang and Enrique Velazquez-Villarreal. 2025. AI-HOPE: An AI-Driven conversational agent for enhanced
      clinical and genomic data integration in precision medicine research. Bioinformatics 41, 7 (2025), btaf359.
[299] Hongyang Yang, Boyu Zhang, Neng Wang, Cheng Guo, Xiaoli Zhang, Likun Lin, Junlin Wang, Tianyu Zhou, Mao
      Guan, Runjia Zhang, et al. 2024. Finrobot: An open-source ai agent platform for financial applications using large
      language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.14767 (2024).
[300] John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. 2024.
      Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. Advances in Neural Information
      Processing Systems 37 (2024), 50528–50652.
[301] Yingxuan Yang, Huacan Chai, Shuai Shao, Yuanyi Song, Siyuan Qi, Renting Rui, and Weinan Zhang. 2025. Agentnet:
      Decentralized evolutionary coordination for llm-based multi-agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.00587 (2025).
[302] Zonglin Yang, Wanhao Liu, Ben Gao, Tong Xie, Yuqiang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Soujanya Poria, Erik Cambria, and
      Dongzhan Zhou. 2025. MOOSE-Chem: Large Language Models for Rediscovering Unseen Chemistry Scientific
      Hypotheses. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations.
[303] Ziyi Yang, Zaibin Zhang, Zirui Zheng, Yuxian Jiang, Ziyue Gan, Zhiyu Wang, Zijian Ling, Martin Ma, Bowen Dong,
      Prateek Gupta, et al. 2024. OASIS: Open Agents Social Interaction Simulations on One Million Agents. In NeurIPS
      Workshop on Open-World Agents.
[304] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. React:
      Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
[305] Asaf Yehudai, Lilach Eden, Alan Li, Guy Uziel, Yilun Zhao, Roy Bar-Haim, Arman Cohan, and Michal Shmueli-Scheuer.
      2025. Survey on evaluation of llm-based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.16416 (2025).
[306] Yangyang Yu, Haohang Li, Zhi Chen, Yuechen Jiang, Yang Li, Denghui Zhang, Rong Liu, Jordan W Suchow, and
      Khaldoun Khashanah. 2024. Finmem: A performance-enhanced llm trading agent with layered memory and character
      design. In Proceedings of the AAAI Symposium Series, Vol. 3. 595–597.
[307] Yangyang Yu, Zhiyuan Yao, Haohang Li, Zhiyang Deng, Yuechen Jiang, Yupeng Cao, Zhi Chen, Jordan Suchow,
      Zhenyu Cui, Rong Liu, et al. 2024. Fincon: A synthesized llm multi-agent system with conceptual verbal reinforcement
      for enhanced financial decision making. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024), 137010–137045.
[308] Zhongming Yu, Hejia Zhang, Yujie Zhao, Hanxian Huang, Matrix Yao, Ke Ding, and Jishen Zhao. 2025. OrcaLoca: An
      LLM Agent Framework for Software Issue Localization. In Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning.
[309] Ling Yue, Sixue Xing, Jintai Chen, and Tianfan Fu. 2024. Clinicalagent: Clinical trial multi-agent system with
      large language model-based reasoning. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM International Conference on Bioinformatics,
      Computational Biology and Health Informatics. 1–10.
[310] Murong Yue. 2025. A survey of large language model agents for question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.19213
      (2025).
[311] Chaoyun Zhang, Shilin He, Liqun Li, Si Qin, Yu Kang, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, and Dongmei Zhang. 2025.
      Api agents vs. gui agents: Divergence and convergence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.11069 (2025).
[312] Chong Zhang, Xinyi Liu, Mingyu Jin, Zhongmou Zhang, Lingyao Li, Zhenting Wang, Wenyue Hua, Dong Shu,
      Suiyuan Zhu, Xiaobo Jin, et al. 2024. When AI Meets Finance (StockAgent): Large Language Model-based Stock
      Trading in Simulated Real-world Environments. CoRR (2024).
[313] Chi Zhang, Zhao Yang, Jiaxuan Liu, Yanda Li, Yucheng Han, Xin Chen, Zebiao Huang, Bin Fu, and Gang Yu. 2025.
      Appagent: Multimodal agents as smartphone users. In Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in
      Computing Systems. 1–20.
[314] Kechi Zhang, Jia Li, Ge Li, Xianjie Shi, and Zhi Jin. 2024. CodeAgent: Enhancing Code Generation with Tool-
      Integrated Agent Systems for Real-World Repo-level Coding Challenges. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of
      the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 13643–13658.
[315] Ruiqi Zhang, Jing Hou, Florian Walter, Shangding Gu, Jiayi Guan, Florian Röhrbein, Yali Du, Panpan Cai, Guang
      Chen, and Alois Knoll. 2024. Multi-agent reinforcement learning for autonomous driving: A survey. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2408.09675 (2024).
[316] S Zhang. 2018. Compendium of China’s First List of Rare Disease. People’s Medical Publishing House, Beijing, China
      (2018), 6–503.
[317] Wentao Zhang, Lingxuan Zhao, Haochong Xia, Shuo Sun, Jiaze Sun, Molei Qin, Xinyi Li, Yuqing Zhao, Yilei Zhao,
      Xinyu Cai, et al. 2024. A multimodal foundation agent for financial trading: Tool-augmented, diversified, and generalist.
      In Proceedings of the 30th acm sigkdd conference on knowledge discovery and data mining. 4314–4325.
[318] Xinnong Zhang, Jiayu Lin, Xinyi Mou, Shiyue Yang, Xiawei Liu, Libo Sun, Hanjia Lyu, Yihang Yang, Weihong Qi, Yue
      Chen, et al. 2025. Socioverse: A world model for social simulation powered by llm agents and a pool of 10 million


                                                          J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
111:50                                                                                                          Zhao et al.


      real-world users. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.10157 (2025).
[319] Xinnong Zhang, Jiayu Lin, Libo Sun, Weihong Qi, Yihang Yang, Yue Chen, Hanjia Lyu, Xinyi Mou, Siming Chen, Jiebo
      Luo, et al. 2024. ElectionSim: Massive Population Election Simulation Powered by Large Language Model Driven
      Agents. CoRR (2024).
[320] Xiaoman Zhang, Chaoyi Wu, Ziheng Zhao, Weixiong Lin, Ya Zhang, Yanfeng Wang, and Weidi Xie. 2023. Pmc-vqa:
      Visual instruction tuning for medical visual question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10415 (2023).
[321] Yifan Zhang, Zhengting He, Jingxuan Li, Jianfeng Lin, Qingfeng Guan, and Wenhao Yu. 2024. MapGPT: an autonomous
      framework for mapping by integrating large language model and cartographic tools. Cartography and Geographic
      Information Science 51, 6 (2024), 717–743.
[322] Yiran Zhang, Ruiyin Li, Peng Liang, Weisong Sun, and Yang Liu. 2025. Knowledge-Based Multi-Agent Framework for
      Automated Software Architecture Design. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on the Foundations
      of Software Engineering. 530–534.
[323] Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu, Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang, Yulong
      Chen, et al. 2025. Siren’s song in the ai ocean: A survey on hallucination in large language models. Computational
      Linguistics (2025), 1–45.
[324] Yadong Zhang, Shaoguang Mao, Tao Ge, Xun Wang, Yan Xia, Wenshan Wu, Ting Song, Man Lan, and Furu Wei. 2024.
      LLM as a Mastermind: A Survey of Strategic Reasoning with Large Language Models. In First Conference on Language
      Modeling.
[325] Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Autocoderover: Autonomous program
      improvement. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis.
      1592–1604.
[326] Zeyu Zhang, Quanyu Dai, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui Li, Xu Chen, Jieming Zhu, Zhenhua Dong, and Ji-Rong Wen.
      2024. A survey on the memory mechanism of large language model based agents. ACM Transactions on Information
      Systems (2024).
[327] Zhexin Zhang, Leqi Lei, Lindong Wu, Rui Sun, Yongkang Huang, Chong Long, Xiao Liu, Xuanyu Lei, Jie Tang, and
      Minlie Huang. 2024. SafetyBench: Evaluating the Safety of Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
      Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 15537–15553.
[328] Zhuosheng Zhang, Yao Yao, Aston Zhang, Xiangru Tang, Xinbei Ma, Zhiwei He, Yiming Wang, Mark Gerstein,
      Rui Wang, Gongshen Liu, et al. 2025. Igniting language intelligence: The hitchhiker’s guide from chain-of-thought
      reasoning to language agents. Comput. Surveys 57, 8 (2025), 1–39.
[329] Andrew Zhao, Daniel Huang, Quentin Xu, Matthieu Lin, Yong-Jin Liu, and Gao Huang. 2024. Expel: Llm agents are
      experiential learners. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38. 19632–19642.
[330] Debbie Zhao, Edward Ferdian, Gonzalo D Maso Talou, Gina M Quill, Kathleen Gilbert, Vicky Y Wang, Thiranja P
      Babarenda Gamage, João Pedrosa, Jan D’hooge, Timothy M Sutton, et al. 2023. MITEA: A dataset for machine
      learning segmentation of the left ventricle in 3D echocardiography using subject-specific labels from cardiac magnetic
      resonance imaging. Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine 9 (2023), 1016703.
[331] Penghao Zhao, Hailin Zhang, Qinhan Yu, Zhengren Wang, Yunteng Geng, Fangcheng Fu, Ling Yang, Wentao Zhang,
      Jie Jiang, and Bin Cui. 2024. Retrieval-augmented generation for ai-generated content: A survey. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2402.19473 (2024).
[332] Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Jihyung Kil, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. 2024. GPT-4V (ision) is a generalist web agent, if
      grounded. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning. 61349–61385.
[333] Junhao Zheng, Chengming Shi, Xidi Cai, Qiuke Li, Duzhen Zhang, Chenxing Li, Dong Yu, and Qianli Ma. 2025.
      Lifelong learning of large language model based agents: A roadmap. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.07278 (2025).
[334] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan
      Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. 2023. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Advances in neural
      information processing systems 36 (2023), 46595–46623.
[335] Denny Zhou, Nathanael Schärli, Le Hou, Jason Wei, Nathan Scales, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Claire Cui,
      Olivier Bousquet, Quoc Le, et al. 2023. Least-to-most prompting enables complex reasoning in large language models.
      In International Conference on Learning Representations.
[336] Juexiao Zhou, Bin Zhang, Guowei Li, Xiuying Chen, Haoyang Li, Xiaopeng Xu, Siyuan Chen, Wenjia He, Chencheng
      Xu, Liwei Liu, et al. 2024. An AI Agent for Fully Automated Multi-Omic Analyses. Advanced Science 11, 44 (2024),
      2407094.
[337] Xinyang Zhou, Yongyong Ren, Qianqian Zhao, Daoyi Huang, Xinbo Wang, Tingting Zhao, Zhixing Zhu, Wenyuan
      He, Shuyuan Li, Yan Xu, et al. 2025. An LLM-Driven Multi-Agent Debate System for Mendelian Diseases. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2504.07881 (2025).
[338] Xuhui Zhou, Zhe Su, Sophie Feng, Jiaxu Zhou, Jen-tse Huang, Hsien-Te Kao, Spencer Lynch, Svitlana Volkova,
      Tongshuang Wu, Anita Woolley, et al. 2025. SOTOPIA-S4: a user-friendly system for flexible, customizable, and


J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
LLM-based Agentic Reasoning Frameworks: A Survey from Methods to Scenarios                                         111:51


      large-scale social simulation. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the
      Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (System Demonstrations). 350–360.
[339] Zhehua Zhou, Jiayang Song, Kunpeng Yao, Zhan Shu, and Lei Ma. 2024. Isr-llm: Iterative self-refined large language
      model for long-horizon sequential task planning. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
      (ICRA). IEEE, 2081–2088.
[340] Dongsheng Zhu, Weixian Shi, Zhengliang Shi, Zhaochun Ren, Shuaiqiang Wang, Lingyong Yan, and Dawei Yin.
      2025. Divide-Then-Aggregate: An Efficient Tool Learning Method via Parallel Tool Invocation. arXiv preprint
      arxiv:2501.12432 (2025).
[341] Yunheng Zou, Austin H Cheng, Abdulrahman Aldossary, Jiaru Bai, Shi Xuan Leong, Jorge Arturo Campos-Gonzalez-
      Angulo, Changhyeok Choi, Cher Tian Ser, Gary Tom, Andrew Wang, et al. 2025. El Agente: An autonomous agent for
      quantum chemistry. Matter 8, 7 (2025).
[342] Kaiwen Zuo, Yirui Jiang, Fan Mo, and Pietro Lio. 2025. Kg4diagnosis: A hierarchical multi-agent llm framework with
      knowledge graph enhancement for medical diagnosis. In AAAI Bridge Program on AI for Medicine and Healthcare.
      PMLR, 195–204.

Received 24 August 2025




                                                       J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2025.
